IMPORTANT NORMAL AND IMPORTANT ABNORMAL AND IMPORTANT Usage of “alternative facts” and “fake news” Immigration ban Immigration raids and roundups False claims about voter fraud Gorsuch Supreme Court nomination Conflicts of interest Tweeting about foreign affairs Publicly criticizing federal judges Choices of cabinet members Bannon on the N.S.C. Flynn and Russia Abandoning the Trans-Pacific Trade partnership (T.P.P.) Characterization of media as enemies An executive order for a border wall with Mexico Accepting call from Taiwanese president ABNORMAL National security meeting in public at Mar-a-Lago NORMAL Informal discussions with foreign governments before inauguration with no briefing Potentially alienating Australia Kellyanne Conway’s promotion of Ivanka Trump’s brand in a Fox News interview Firing the acting attorney general Sally Yates NORMAL AND NOT IMPORTANT ABNORMAL AND NOT IMPORTANT NOT IMPORTANT IMPORTANT NORMAL AND IMPORTANT ABNORMAL AND IMPORTANT Usage of “alternative facts” and “fake news” Immigration ban Immigration raids and roundups False claims about voter fraud Gorsuch Supreme Court nomination Conflicts of interest Tweeting about foreign affairs Publicly criticizing federal judges Choices of cabinet members Bannon on the N.S.C. Flynn and Russia Abandoning the Trans-Pacific Trade partnership (T.P.P.) Characterization of media as enemies An executive order for a border wall with Mexico Accepting call from Taiwanese president National security meeting in public at Mar-a-Lago ABNORMAL NORMAL Informal discussions with foreign governments before inauguration with no briefing Potentially alienating Australia Kellyanne Conway’s promotion of Ivanka Trump’s brand in a Fox News interview Firing the acting attorney general Sally Yates NORMAL AND NOT IMPORTANT ABNORMAL AND NOT IMPORTANT NOT IMPORTANT Pinch to zoom

It’s understandable if President Trump’s first month in office has left your head spinning, given the pace of news, the middle-of-the-night Twitter posts and the vows to upend Washington.

To help us get our bearings, we asked experts across the ideological spectrum — people who have served in government or studied the way governments work — to rate 20 news events for importance and abnormality. More often than not, the administration’s actions have been both highly unusual and highly consequential, The Upshot’s 15 survey panelists said.

We asked our panelists: Was the event normal, like the veto of a bill in a prior administration? Or was it highly unusual in contemporary American democracy, like ordering newspapers to suspend publication of the Pentagon Papers? Also, was it unimportant, with limited or no consequences for federal policy, like the menu for a state dinner? Or was it important, creating lasting and significant changes in policy, like the establishment of Social Security?

On average, more than half the events were rated abnormal and important. The most extreme instances, they said, were the immigration ban; the use of falsehoods; and the president’s business conflicts of interest. The Supreme Court nomination and immigration raids were on average considered normal but important. The experts thought just two of the events would have limited or no policy consequences: the firing of the acting attorney general and Kellyanne Conway’s promotion of Ivanka Trump’s products.

Below are all 20 items, grouped by their quadrant on our reality-check matrix.

Abnormal and important events

An executive order barring immigrants from seven Muslim-majority countries as well as refugees from Syria Timur Kuran, professor of political science and economics at Duke, said the order “violated the U.S. Constitution, and it has raised the danger of global war based on religion.” Gerald Feierstein, a career foreign service officer who served in the State Department under President Obama and is a director at the Middle East Institute, said it was less alarming: “The issuance of the order was incompetent and the order itself is unhelpful, but the president does have wide latitude on immigration and national security programs.” President Trump closed the nation’s borders to people from seven nations, saying it was essential to prevent terrorism . The order was later blocked by a federal judge. Of the 20 news events our panel rated, this was considered the most important., professor of political science and economics at Duke, said the order “violated the U.S. Constitution, and it has raised the danger of global war based on religion.”, a career foreign service officer who served in the State Department under President Obama and is a director at the Middle East Institute,said it was less alarming: “The issuance of the order was incompetent and the order itself is unhelpful, but the president does have wide latitude on immigration and national security programs.”

Falsehoods about topics like illegal voters and inauguration crowd size; using language like “alternative facts” and “fake news” to discuss indisputable events Jennifer Hochschild, chair of the department of government at Harvard. “It depends on how many people believe him.” Anne-Marie Slaughter, chief executive of New America, a left-leaning think tank, and a former Obama State Department official, said: “This is truly dangerous. Authoritarian governments sow distrust and division as a way of discrediting anything that is negative or critical of them.” President Trump has uttered falsehoods about some basic facts, like the number of illegal voters in the 2016 election and the number of people who attended his inauguration . When asked about the correct numbers, Mr. Trump and some of his team have dismissed them as “fake news” or said there were “alternative facts.” “All politicians lie and stretch the truth, even the ones I revere, but this is extreme,” said, chair of the department of government at Harvard. “It depends on how many people believe him.”, chief executive of New America, a left-leaning think tank, and a former Obama State Department official, said: “This is truly dangerous. Authoritarian governments sow distrust and division as a way of discrediting anything that is negative or critical of them.”

Unfounded allegations of voter fraud in the general election Ms. Hochschild said it was “bizarre, especially for the winner of the contest, and undermines a crucial faith of democratic polity.” President Trump has repeatedly said that millions of people voted illegally, robbing him of the popular vote, an assertion that has been widely debunked said it was “bizarre, especially for the winner of the contest, and undermines a crucial faith of democratic polity.”

An array of possible conflicts of interest (incomplete divesting; having his children take over business operations; having a son-in-law in a senior role in the White House) Ms. Slaughter said. President Trump still owns his business, despite handing over its management to his adult sons, and appointed his son-in-law, Jared Kushner, as an adviser despite a federal anti-nepotism law. Ethics experts say the arrangement leaves him open to conflicts of interest, including in dealings with foreign governments and United States government agencies. “This degrades our standing in the rest of the world as a corrupt government and also supports leaders in other countries who use their office for personal gain,”said.

Tweeting independently on national security and foreign affairs issues Erica Chenoweth, professor of international studies at the University of Denver. Tom Ginsburg, professor of comparative and international law at the University of Chicago, echoed some of the language in Mr. Trump’s tweets: “Bad! Sad!” President Trump posts often on Twitter, sometimes against the preferences and without the advice of aides, about policy ideas and reactions to things he sees on TV. “Trump's off-the-cuff tweets have dramatically increased the amount of uncertainty in the world, especially when his appointees and staff contradict the positions he articulates in tweets,” said, professor of international studies at the University of Denver., professor of comparative and international law at the University of Chicago, echoed some of the language in Mr. Trump’s tweets: “Bad! Sad!”

An executive order giving Stephen Bannon a full seat on the National Security Council and downgrading the roles of the chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff and the director of national intelligence Lee Edwards, a distinguished fellow at the Heritage Foundation, a right-leaning think tank, and a historian of American conservatism. “Whether it was a wise decision or not will be proven in the months to come.” President Trump defied longstanding precedent by giving Mr. Bannon , a political adviser, status above his top military and intelligence advisers in areas of national security. “The president has the authority to appoint anyone he wants to the N.S.C.,” said, a distinguished fellow at the Heritage Foundation, a right-leaning think tank, and a historian of American conservatism. “Whether it was a wise decision or not will be proven in the months to come.”

Publicly criticizing federal judges Ryan Crocker, executive professor at Texas A&M and a career United States ambassador. “This is abnormal because he is criticizing the judges themselves.” President Trump has publicly disparaged judges whose rulings he does not like, using terms like “disgraceful,” “so political” and “ so-called judge .” “Presidents have criticized judicial decisions,” said, executive professor at Texas A&M and a career United States ambassador. “This is abnormal because he is criticizing the judges themselves.”

Lies by the national security adviser, Michael Flynn, about discussing sanctions with a Russian official Ms. Slaughter said. “The problem here is the deeper context of Russian interference in the election in a way that aids Trump.” Mr. Flynn discussed American sanctions against Russia and areas of possible cooperation with the Russian ambassador before the inauguration; misled Vice President Mike Pence about the conversations; and was asked by Mr. Trump to resign . “It is certainly not the first time that a president-elect's adviser has had contact with a foreign government before inauguration, even though that is illegal, and lying by a senior administration official is sadly not abnormal,”said. “The problem here is the deeper context of Russian interference in the election in a way that aids Trump.”

An executive order for a border wall with Mexico Mr. Crocker said. Thomas Nichols, professor at the U.S. Naval War College, called it “a standard aspirational executive order, issued to make it seem like a fulfilled promise.” Acting on a campaign promise, President Trump ordered the immediate construction of a border wall with Mexico. He said that he would make Mexico pay but that Congress would initially have to appropriate funds. “The abnormality and importance lie in the political signal it sends to a neighbor and ally,”said., professor at the U.S. Naval War College, called it “a standard aspirational executive order, issued to make it seem like a fulfilled promise.”

Having a senior strategist call the press “the opposition” and tell the news media to “keep its mouth shut” Mr. Kuran said: “An adversarial press is central to the American political system. Intimidating the news media can put the country on a slippery slope to autocracy.” Mr. Feierstein said, “It's only important to the extent that his comments reflect Trump's position and they try to do something about it.” The strategist, Stephen Bannon, told a reporter , “The media here is the opposition party” and “should be embarrassed and humiliated and keep its mouth shut and just listen for a while.”said: “An adversarial press is central to the American political system. Intimidating the news media can put the country on a slippery slope to autocracy.”said, “It's only important to the extent that his comments reflect Trump's position and they try to do something about it.”

Breaking tradition with decades of foreign policy by accepting a call from the president of Taiwan, though later telling the president of China he would honor the “One China” policy Frances Lee, professor of government and politics at the University of Maryland. “Mixed signals like this create potential for misunderstanding and will undermine trust in U.S. global leadership.” Vincent Hutchings, professor of political science at the University of Michigan, said the “long-term consequences are likely minimal.” The Taiwan call , made before the inauguration, raised questions about whether the administration would continue to honor the One China policy, but as president, Mr. Trump smoothed things over by saying he would. “The quick reversal looks feckless,” said, professor of government and politics at the University of Maryland. “Mixed signals like this create potential for misunderstanding and will undermine trust in U.S. global leadership.”, professor of political science at the University of Michigan, said the “long-term consequences are likely minimal.”

Coordinating the U.S. response to a North Korea missile test in a public, unsecured location at the Mar-a-Lago resort in Florida Mr. Feierstein said. “But the significance of the issue is the negative light it shines on Trump's competence, integrity and judgment.” Mr. Edwards said, “The president delights in being unorthodox, which puts adversaries like North Korea at a disadvantage.” President Trump discussed a response to a North Korean missile test in plain view of club members at Mar-a-Lago. One club member took photos of the scene and posted them on Facebook. Our panel varied in its assessment of the issue’s overall consequence, but agreed that it was a strong departure from typical behavior. “It's not a major issue – I doubt that there was any compromise of national security,”said. “But the significance of the issue is the negative light it shines on Trump's competence, integrity and judgment.”said, “The president delights in being unorthodox, which puts adversaries like North Korea at a disadvantage.”

Informal discussions with foreign governments before being inaugurated and without prior briefing Mr. Crocker said. “Most presidents are briefed first.” As President-elect, Mr. Trump made calls to foreign leaders in the Philippines, Kazakhstan, Taiwan and Pakistan, without the knowledge of or a briefing by the Obama administration, upsetting long-established norms of diplomacy . “Most presidents have them,”said. “Most presidents are briefed first.”

Normal and important events

Immigration raids and roundups by Immigration and Customs Enforcement Mr. Kuran said. “How the U.S. handles matters of immigration will have a huge impact on its peace and prosperity.” Agents arrested more than 600 people in one week , causing confusion about the administration’s deportation plans. (Later, two draft memos showed plans to greatly increase deportations and significantly change the way agencies enforce immigration laws.) “Insofar as laws on the books are being enforced, the raids fall within the bounds of normal policy,”said. “How the U.S. handles matters of immigration will have a huge impact on its peace and prosperity.”

Nominating Neil Gorsuch to the Supreme Court Mr. Nichols said. Mr. Gorsuch is a conservative judge seen to be an ideological heir to Antonin Scalia. The nomination came after Senate Republicans refused to hold hearings or vote on President Obama’s nominee, Merrick Garland. Of all the issues we asked our panel about, this was considered the most normal. “A normal pick with deeply consequential impact, as all Scotus nominations are, but especially so in a divided court after the Garland block,”said.

Choices of cabinet members Mr. Edwards said. President Trump’s cabinet picks, who have faced unprecedented opposition in Congress , have limited government experience and extraordinary wealth . “The Trump cabinet is turning out to be composed of experienced, knowledgeable people who reflect the philosophy of the president and the 61-million-plus people who voted for Trump,”said.

Abandoning the Trans-Pacific Partnership treaty Ms. Chenoweth said. President Trump ended the multinational trade deal brokered by President Obama, reversing a decades-long bipartisan free trade policy. “It is typical for a president to quickly distinguish himself from his predecessor, and the T.P.P. — widely unpopular among Trump's base — was low-hanging fruit in this regard,”said.

Abnormal and unimportant events

Potentially alienating Australia, one of the U.S.’s strongest allies Mr. Hutchings said. President Trump abruptly hung up on the prime minister of Australia over a disagreement about the number of refugees that the United States would accept from Australia. “Amateur hour, but mostly unimportant,”said.

Kellyanne Conway’s promotion of Ivanka Trump’s brand in a Fox News interview Larry Diamond, senior fellow at the conservative Hoover Institution at Stanford. Ms. Conway said , “Go buy Ivanka’s stuff,” which the government’s chief ethics watchdog said was “ a clear violation ” of rules against endorsing products and using public office for private gain. “Completely unprofessional, but pales in importance to some of these others,” said, senior fellow at the conservative Hoover Institution at Stanford.

Normal and unimportant events

Firing the acting attorney general Sally Yates Mr. Ginsburg said. President Trump fired Ms. Yates after she ordered Justice Department lawyers not to defend his travel ban on people from seven predominantly Muslim countries. With a few exceptions, our panel concluded that this was mostly inconsequential; no issue rated less important, on average. “No surprise: Democrats would do the same,”said.