Palestinian President Mahmoud Abbas (Photo: Martial Trezzini, AP)

Palestinian Authority President Mahmoud Abbas on Monday called on the United Nations to defend a "two-state solution" and support creation of a Palestinian state.

Abbas, speaking to the United Nations Human Rights Council in Geneva, cited a new Israeli law legalizing dozens of Jewish settlements in Palestinian territory as a reflection of an Israeli movement toward an apartheid state.

Abbas' speech came less than two weeks after President Trump and Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu wavered on the two-state solution that was firmly supported by the Obama administration.

"Palestine will remain the litmus test for this council," Abbas said, according to an Al Jazeera translation. "Whether it succeeds or not will be crucial for the credibility of the human rights system throughout the world."

Trump, hosting Netanyahu at the White House on Feb. 15, said he was "looking at two-state or the one-state," saying the Israelis and Palestinians should decide.

The one-state solution would include Israelis and Palestinians as equal citizens in a single country. The two-state solution would create a Palestinian nation alongside Israel. Netanyahu has reasserted his position that a two-state solution can only happen if the new Palestinian state recognizes Israel's legitimacy and if Israel maintains security control of the West Bank.

Supporters of a two-state solution say it would end hostility between Israel and Palestinians as well as Arab neighbors and produce stability in the war-torn Middle East. But the two sides remain far apart on the borders of a new Palestinian state: Both claim Jerusalem as their capital, and Israel has expanded settlements on land that the Palestinians also say is theirs.

In his speech, Abbas cautioned against any unilateral actions and any encouragement of the further occupation of Palestine. He encouraged U.N. members not to move their embassies in Israel from Tel Aviv to the divided city of Jerusalem.

Trump strongly supported such a move for the U.S. embassy during the presidential campaign, but he has softened his position as president, saying he'd "love to see that happen," but making no commitment.

Contributing: Greg Korte

Read or Share this story: http://usat.ly/2mw7JX8