Barack Obama’s staff reportedly rushed to preserve evidence of Russian interference in the 2016 Presidential election in an attempt to leave a trail for investigators to follow later.

In the closing days of the Democrat's term, Obama administration officials allegedly felt they had realised the full-scale of Russian intervention too late and scrambled to document information about Moscow-Trump contact.

US allies, including the UK, had provided information about meetings in European states between associates of Mr Trump and Russian officials in President Vladimir Putin’s inner circle, the New York Times reported.

American intelligence services had also reportedly intercepted communications between the US President's team and sources within the Kremlin.

Jeff Sessions says under oath that he has not had any contact with Russia

According to the New York Times report – which cited a handful of anonymous official sources – some Obama administration officials feared intelligence about the reported election interference could be covered up or destroyed after the Republican leader took control.

Mr Obama's staff reportedly asked pointed questions at intelligence briefings, knowing the query would be recorded, while intelligence agents rushed to analyse information. These reports were then deliberately classified with the lowest security clearance possible, so they could be seen by a large number of people.

The news emerged amid fresh information that officials in the Trump administration had been ordered by the White House counsel’s office to keep any intelligence of Russian interference intact.

Mr Trump’s White House spokesperson Sean Spicer dismissed the revelations about Mr Obama's staff. “The only new piece of information that has come to light is that political appointees in the Obama administration have sought to create a false narrative to make an excuse for their own defeat in the election," he said.

A spokesperson for Mr Obama, Eric Schultz, said it was standard practice to thoroughly document the information. “This situation was serious," he said.

The discovery comes asAttorney General Jeff Sessions faces pressure to resign over his ties to Russia.

Mr Sessions, an early supporter of Mr Trump, did not disclose two conversations he had with the Russian ambassador to the US during the Presidential campaign.

The 70-year-old was asked at his confirmation hearing in January if “anyone affiliated” with the campaign had been in contact with the Russian government.

Mr Sessions said: “I have no idea what this allegation is about. It is false.”

Justice Department spokeswoman Sarah Isgur Flores said on Wednesday night that “there was absolutely nothing misleading about his answer.”

The scandal about contact between Trump associates’ and Russia has shown little sign of relenting since the CIA, FBI and the director of national intelligence, concluded that Russia intervened in the 2016 in part with the aim of getting Mr Trump into the White House.

The story re-erupted with the forced resignation of national security adviser Lt Gen Michael Flynn, after it emerged he allegedly discussed lifting sanctions on Russia before he entered office.

Pressure on the White House has been mounting, with the FBI conducting a wide-ranging investigation into Russia’s hacking of the election, and is looking at links between Mr Trump’s associated and Moscow.

Trump and Putin passionately kiss in street mural







14 show all Trump and Putin passionately kiss in street mural

























1/14 A lesbian couple kisses in front of mural depicting Russian President Vladimir Putin and Republican presidential candidate Donald Trump, on the walls of a barbecue bar 'Keule Ruke' on May 19, 2016 in Vilnius, Lithuania. Barcroft Media/Getty

2/14 A lesbian couple kisses in front of mural depicting Russian President Vladimir Putin and Republican presidential candidate Donald Trump, on the walls of a barbecue bar 'Keule Ruke' on May 19, 2016 in Vilnius, Lithuania. Barcroft Media/Getty

3/14 VILNIUS, LITHUANIA - NOVEMBER 23: A woman walks past a mural showing U.S. President-elect Donald Trump (R) blowing marijuana smoke into the mouth of Russian President Vladimir Putin on the wall of a bar-b-que restaurant on November 23, 2016 in Vilnius, Lithuania. Many people in the three Baltic nations of Lithuania, Latvia and Estonia are concerned that Russia, because Trump has expressed both admiration for Putin and doubt over defending NATO member states, will be emboldened to intervene militarily in the Baltics. Sean Gallup/Getty

4/14 A woman walks past a mural on a restaurant wall depicting US Presidential hopeful Donald Trump and Russian President Vladimir Putin greeting each other with a kiss in the Lithuanian capital Vilnius on May 13, 2016. Kestutis Girnius, associate professor of the Institute of International Relations and Political Science in Vilnius university, told AFP -This graffiti expresses the fear of some Lithuanians that Donald Trump is likely to kowtow to Vladimir Putin and be indifferent to Lithuanias security concerns. Trump has notoriously stated that Putin is a strong leader, and that NATO is obsolete and expensive. Petras Malukas/AFP/Getty Images

5/14 AP

6/14 A child walks past a graffiti depicting Russian President Vladimir Putin, left, and Republican presidential candidate Donald Trump, on the walls of a bar in the old town in Vilnius, Lithuania, Saturday, May 14, 2016. (AP Photo/Mindaugas Kulbis) AP

7/14 People walk past a mural on a restaurant wall depicting US Presidential hopeful Donald Trump and Russian President Vladimir Putin greeting each other with a kiss in the Lithuanian capital Vilnius on May 13, 2016. Kestutis Girnius, associate professor of the Institute of International Relations and Political Science in Vilnius university, told AFP -This graffiti expresses the fear of some Lithuanians that Donald Trump is likely to kowtow to Vladimir Putin and be indifferent to Lithuanias security concerns. Trump has notoriously stated that Putin is a strong leader, and that NATO is obsolete and expensive. Petras Malukas/AFP/Getty Images

8/14 A man photographs a mural on a restaurant wall depicting US Presidential hopeful Donald Trump and Russian President Vladimir Putin greeting each other with a kiss in the Lithuanian capital Vilnius on May 13, 2016. Kestutis Girnius, associate professor of the Institute of International Relations and Political Science in Vilnius university, told AFP -This graffiti expresses the fear of some Lithuanians that Donald Trump is likely to kowtow to Vladimir Putin and be indifferent to Lithuanias security concerns. Trump has notoriously stated that Putin is a strong leader, and that NATO is obsolete and expensive. Petras Malukas/AFP/Getty Images

9/14 AP

10/14 A young woman walks past a mural showing U.S. President-elect Donald Trump (R) blowing marijuana smoke into the mouth of Russian President Vladimir Putin with the slogan "make everything great again," in reference to Trump's campaign slogan of "Make America Great Again," on the wall of a bar-b-que restaurant on November 23, 2016 in Vilnius, Lithuania. Many people in the three Baltic nations of Lithuania, Latvia and Estonia are concerned that Russia, because Trump has expressed both admiration for Putin and doubt over defending NATO member states, will be emboldened to intervene militarily in the Baltics. Sean Gallup/Getty

11/14 A morning commuter stops to look at a mural on a restaurant wall depicting US Presidential hopeful Donald Trump and Russian President Vladimir Putin greeting each other with a kiss in the Lithuanian capital Vilnius on May 13, 2016. Kestutis Girnius, associate professor of the Institute of International Relations and Political Science in Vilnius university, told AFP -This graffiti expresses the fear of some Lithuanians that Donald Trump is likely to kowtow to Vladimir Putin and be indifferent to Lithuanias security concerns. Trump has notoriously stated that Putin is a strong leader, and that NATO is obsolete and expensive. Petras Malukas/AFP/Getty Images

12/14 Restaurant owner Dominykas Ceckauskas pose next to a mural on the wall of his establishment depicting US Presidential hopeful Donald Trump and Russian President Vladimir Putin greeting each other with a kiss in the Lithuanian capital Vilnius on May 13, 2016. Kestutis Girnius, associate professor of the Institute of International Relations and Political Science in Vilnius university, told AFP -This graffiti expresses the fear of some Lithuanians that Donald Trump is likely to kowtow to Vladimir Putin and be indifferent to Lithuanias security concerns. Trump has notoriously stated that Putin is a strong leader, and that NATO is obsolete and expensive. / AFP / Petras Malukas (Photo credit should read PETRAS MALUKAS/AFP/Getty Images) Petras Malukas/AFP/Getty Images

13/14 A passerby photographs a mural showing U.S. President-elect Donald Trump (R) blowing marijuana smoke into the mouth of Russian President Vladimir Putin on the wall of a bar-b-que restaurant on November 23, 2016 in Vilnius, Lithuania. Many people in the three Baltic nations of Lithuania, Latvia and Estonia are concerned that Russia, because Trump has expressed both admiration for Putin and doubt over defending NATO member states, will be emboldened to intervene militarily in the Baltics. Sean Gallup/Getty

14/14 Getty

The Senate Intelligence Committee in early January announced also launched their own inquiries into Russian interference in the election, although it must rely on information obtained by the security services.

The Russian government has maintained it did not interfere in the election and has denied allegations its intelligence agents had been in contact with Mr Trump’s campaign team.

He and Mr Putin have vowed to repair relations between Russia and the US, which nose-dived after the 2014 annexation of Crimea and have remained rocky partly due to the Kremlin’s backing for Syrian President Bashar al-Assad.

Mr Trump has denied having links to Russia and labelled reports of them “fake news”.