CLOSE Skip in Skip x Embed x Share Retired judge Belvin Perry who presided over the Casey Anthony trial now is saying he thinks she did kill her two-year-old daughter Caylee, by accident. USA TODAY NETWORK

In this July 7, 2011 photo, Casey Anthony smiles before the start of her sentencing hearing in Orlando, Fla. (Photo: Joe Burbank, AP)

Casey Anthony, the suspect of a high-profile 2011 murder case involving her daughter, is living in West Palm Beach, Fla., according to reports.

In February, a WPTV camera crew spotted Anthony at a protest against the Donald Trump administration, but she declined to comment.

TMZ surfaced a photo of Anthony picking up her terrier at a groomer in the area last year.

Casey Anthony -- Loving Mother ... to Her Dog (PHOTO GALLERY) https://t.co/48Fob6WzRB — TMZ (@TMZ) July 14, 2016

Several community Facebook pages try to keep track of Anthony’s whereabouts. Casey Anthony Boycott Information published a timeline from Oct. 2011 to May 9, 2015. The post claims Anthony lives around the Congress and Gateway area in West Palm Beach and lists the address of private detective Patrick J. McKenna on her license. McKenna was a lead investigator in Anthony’s defense. He is also known for his work in the OJ Simpson case.

More: Casey Anthony probably killed her daughter, but by accident, judge says

Several sources report Anthony has been working as a photographer since the start of the year. She registered her company, Case Photography, LLC, as a limited liability company in West Palm Beach, Inside Edition reports.

Anthony has gone on a few dates with men met “through her very small legal circle” but in general doesn’t have many close relationships, even with family, according to People.

Anthony was accused of killing her daughter Caylee in June 2008. In 2011, a jury acquitted Anthony of murdering her two-year-old, who's body was found in woods near the Anthony home. Recently, the retired Florida judge who presided over the Anthony trial said he believes she "may" have accidentally killed her two-year-old daughter with chloroform.

Follow Ashley May on Twitter: @AshleyMayTweets

Read or Share this story: http://usat.ly/2mxl70s