CLOSE Skip in Skip x Embed x Share With help from allied forces and Russian air strikes, on Thursday the Syrian army said it recaptured the ancient city of Palmyra from Islamic State. USA TODAY

In this March 1, 2017, frame grab from video provided by the government-controlled Syrian Central Military Media, Syrian forces take up positions during fighting between government forces and Islamic State group militants in the ancient city of Palmyra, near Homs, Syria. (Photo: AP)



Syria's military announced Thursday that its troops, aided by Russian air power, recaptured the ancient city of Palmyra from Islamic militants for the second time in a year.

The statement from the Syrian army said its forces were bolstered by "allied and friendly troops," a reference to Lebanese Hezbollah fighters, the Associated Press reported.

In Moscow, Kremlin spokesman Dmitry Peskov said Russian President Vladimir Putin was informed of the Syrian victory by his defense minister, Russia's TASS news agency reported.

Syrian troops had seized Palmyra in March 2016 but lost it to the militants in December. The city, which is listed as a World Heritage site by UNESCO, is located 150 miles northeast of Damascus.

Syria’s state news agency SANA said militants' defenses began crumbling Sunday, and the government reached the town’s outskirts Tuesday. A SANA reporter said troops moved in slowly because of the threat of sniper fire, IEDs and car bombs but were "establishing control over new areas and killing scores of terrorists."

Activist-run Palmyra News Network said the advancing forces pounded the town with artillery and airstrikes.

Before Syria's civil war erupted in 2011, Palmyra was a popular tourist destination. UNESCO describes Palmyra as one of the most important cultural centers of the ancient world.

From the 1st to the 2nd century, the art and architecture of Palmyra "married Greco-Roman techniques with local traditions and Persian influences," the United Nations heritage group said.

UNESCO director general Irina Bokova said in January that the latest satellite imagery confirmed the destruction of the city's Tetrapylon and parts of the theater's proscenium. The Tetrapylon was a monument marking a major road intersection along the colonnaded street of Palmyra.

“This destruction is a new war crime and an immense loss for the Syrian people and for humanity,” she said. “This new blow against cultural heritage, just a few hours after UNESCO received reports about mass executions in the theater, shows that cultural cleansing led by violent extremists is seeking to destroy both human lives and historical monuments in order to deprive the Syrian people of its past and its future."

Contributing: Associated Press

Read or Share this story: http://usat.ly/2mwOy2E