CLOSE Skip in Skip x Embed x Share Courtesy of Partnership for Drug-Free Kids

Parents and guardians face increasing pressure to talk to their kids about drugs. (Photo: alfexe, Getty Images/iStockphoto)

As the threat of the opioid epidemic reaches more families, parents and guardians face increasing pressure to talk to their kids about drugs, public health officials say.

How they respond matters, according to a body of research from academic journals and nonprofit organizations. But that research differs on how to respond. And not everyone agrees that honesty is the only policy.

Some psychologists stress caution.

Angelo Valente, executive director of Partnership for a Drug-Free New Jersey, a drug prevention organization, said the question should be viewed as an opportunity.

"The fact that your child is coming to you is extremely important," he said, siding strongly with parents being honest. If dishonesty comes to light, it can harm trust and that can keep a child from coming forward later, he said.

"You want them to continue to be able to build trust," he said. "You want the parent to be a resource during difficult times in adolescence."

Along with any disclosure of past drug use, parents should make sure their children know that drugs — from opioids to synthetic drugs like bath salts — are far more dangerous than most drugs were 20 or 30 years ago, Valente said.

The national organization, Partnership for Drug-Free Kids, provides advice on how to answer the question in a tip sheet and a more detailed kit specifically about marijuana.

"Kids want to have that open dialogue," said Kristi Rowe, a spokeswoman for the group. "That doesn't mean you have to give them all the detail in technicolor."

One of the group's broader points: the right approach depends on your child.

Telling the truth, for instance, carries its own pitfalls, according to one prominent 2013 study by researchers from the University of Illinois that says that honesty leads to more positive feelings among children about illicit drug use.

But few practitioners, if any, advocate lying.

“It’s best to react with honesty,” said Tara Lally, a licensed psychologist with a practice in West Long Branch and an adjunct professor at Monmouth University. “If you lie, you damage your relationship.”

CLOSE Skip in Skip x Embed x Share FIGHTING ADDICTION AT THE SHORE WATCH: Children of Heroin | 13:35 Heroin destroys thousands of lives everyday around the world. In the documentary you'll meet mothers, fathers and children in New Jersey who are coping with life marred by the drug. 1 of 24 CLOSE Skip in Skip x Embed x Share FIGHTING ADDICTION AT THE SHORE WATCH: Carly Boldman talks about her father's struggle with heroin | 1:52 Carly Boldman, the 19-year-old daughter of Lenny Boldman, talks about her father's struggle with heroin and how it impacted her life. 2 of 24 CLOSE Skip in Skip x Embed x Share FIGHTING ADDICTION AT THE SHORE WATCH: Addicted mothers share their stories of recovery | 0:42 Mothers who once struggled with opioid addiction share their stories of recovery. 3 of 24 CLOSE Skip in Skip x Embed x Share FIGHTING ADDICTION AT THE SHORE WATCH: Kim Boldman speaks about her husband's heroin addiction | 1:48 Kim Boldman, wife of Lenny Boldman, talks about her husbands heroin addiction and how it affected their family. 4 of 24 CLOSE Skip in Skip x Embed x Share FIGHTING ADDICTION AT THE SHORE WATCH: John Brogan talk about his experience with heroin addiction | 3:02 WATCH: John Brogan talk about his experience with heroin addiction 5 of 24 CLOSE Skip in Skip x Embed x Share FIGHTING ADDICTION AT THE SHORE Getting a job is a hurdle for recovering addicts | 1:54 Governor Chris Christie heard from clients at the Preferred Behavioral Health center in Toms River about the challenges faced by recovering addicts in gaining meaningful employment during their recovery. THOMAS P. COSTELLO 6 of 24 CLOSE Skip in Skip x Embed x Share FIGHTING ADDICTION AT THE SHORE Christie details a story of addiction and recovery during State of the State | 5:03 During his State of the State address, NJ Governor Chris Christie shared AJ Solomon's story of addiction and recovery. Solomon was a former Christie staffer with a heroin addiction who will now be opening a treatment center. POOL VIDEO BY NJTV 7 of 24 CLOSE Skip in Skip x Embed x Share FIGHTING ADDICTION AT THE SHORE Son's death spurs Narcan training | 2:37 The death of Paul Ressler's son Corey gave a new direction to his life by providing training programs for first responders and family members in the administration of Narcan to reverse opioid overdoses THOMAS P. COSTELLO 8 of 24 CLOSE Skip in Skip x Embed x Share FIGHTING ADDICTION AT THE SHORE Heroin's deadly companion | 0:07 Ocean County Prosecutor Joseph Coronato discusses his concern with fentanyl Ken Serrano 9 of 24 CLOSE Skip in Skip x Embed x Share FIGHTING ADDICTION AT THE SHORE Advocates: more drug treatment beds needed | 0:55 Drug and alcohol treatment in New Jersey has been declining. Advocates say that's because of a drop in indigent funding and other obstacles to access Wochit 10 of 24 CLOSE Skip in Skip x Embed x Share FIGHTING ADDICTION AT THE SHORE WATCH: Christie salutes those who helped save lives with Narcan | 3:54 At the two-year anniversary of New Jersey's Narcan program thousands of people have been given a second chance at life. VIDEO COURTESY OF THE GOVERNOR'S OFFICE 11 of 24 CLOSE Skip in Skip x Embed x Share FIGHTING ADDICTION AT THE SHORE WATCH: Former addicted mother talks being away from children | 0:45 Renee Ambos talks about what it was like to have to leave her children to seek treatement for her heroin addiction. 12 of 24 CLOSE Skip in Skip x Embed x Share FIGHTING ADDICTION AT THE SHORE WATCH: Mothers addicted to heroin share their stories, Part 2 | 0:48 Mothers addicted to heroin share their stories of recovery. 13 of 24 CLOSE Skip in Skip x Embed x Share FIGHTING ADDICTION AT THE SHORE Children of Heroin: Isaac Edelhauser | 2:05 Isaac's parents are heroin addicts. Doug Hood/ Ryan Ross 14 of 24 CLOSE Skip in Skip x Embed x Share FIGHTING ADDICTION AT THE SHORE Berkeley heroin factory seized | 0:38 Six people were arrested after police raid two apartmenets in Berkely Township and take-down a heroin manufacturing facility in one of them. 15 of 24 CLOSE Skip in Skip x Embed x Share FIGHTING ADDICTION AT THE SHORE Christie joins opioid addiction panel | 1:01 NJ Governor Chris Christie opens the "Solutions for a New Way Forward" panel discussion on the national opioid addiction epidemic at Jersey Shore University Medical Center. STAFF VIDEO BY THOMAS P. COSTELLO 16 of 24 CLOSE Skip in Skip x Embed x Share FIGHTING ADDICTION AT THE SHORE Christie on New Jersey's heroin recovery coach program | 0:13 Gov. Chris Christie on a program at Monmouth Medical Center to get heroin overdose victims into treatment with the help of ex-addicts 17 of 24 CLOSE Skip in Skip x Embed x Share FIGHTING ADDICTION AT THE SHORE Christie recognizes recovery coach from Toms River | 3:48 Former heroin addict John Brogan, Toms River, was recognized by Governor Chris Christie as one of the state's finest recovery coaches during the State of the State address. POOL VIDEO BY NJTV 18 of 24 CLOSE Skip in Skip x Embed x Share FIGHTING ADDICTION AT THE SHORE WATCH: I'm addicted to heroin | 1:44 Recovering heroin addict John Brogan, who was praised by Gov. Chris Christie at his State of the State address Tuesday, talks about how heroin brought him close to taking his life. 19 of 24 CLOSE Skip in Skip x Embed x Share FIGHTING ADDICTION AT THE SHORE WATCH: Former addicted mother shares her experience | 0:41 Renee Ambos shares her story of trying to care for children while addicted to heroin. 20 of 24 CLOSE Skip in Skip x Embed x Share FIGHTING ADDICTION AT THE SHORE The Warning Signs | 0:44 John Ramaglia speaks about the difficulties in noticing the warning signs of addiction in his son, Matthew. Ryan Ross 21 of 24 CLOSE Skip in Skip x Embed x Share FIGHTING ADDICTION AT THE SHORE A father's fight against heroin in Lacey | 3:51 Still grieving over his son's death in 2007, John Ramaglia is pressing Lacey officials to deal more aggressively with the heroin problem in the township. Ryan Ross/Tanya Breen/Ken Serrano 22 of 24 CLOSE Skip in Skip x Embed x Share FIGHTING ADDICTION AT THE SHORE Doctor arrested for dealing prescription drugs | 0:58 Dr. Liviu Holca was arrested and authorities shut down his practice in Manahawkin, charging him with illegally distributing the prescription drugs Percocet and Xanax for no medical reason. VIDEO BY NBC10 / EDITED BY THOMAS P. COSTELLO 23 of 24 CLOSE Skip in Skip x Embed x Share FIGHTING ADDICTION AT THE SHORE Taking unwanted drugs off the street | 1:19 Project Medicine Drop expanded its locations today in Little Egg Harbor Township. Staff video by Tom Spader 24 of 24 Last VideoNext Video WATCH: Children of Heroin

WATCH: Carly Boldman talks about her father's struggle with heroin

WATCH: Addicted mothers share their stories of recovery

WATCH: Kim Boldman speaks about her husband's heroin addiction

WATCH: John Brogan talk about his experience with heroin addiction

Getting a job is a hurdle for recovering addicts

Christie details a story of addiction and recovery during State of the State

Son's death spurs Narcan training

Heroin's deadly companion

Advocates: more drug treatment beds needed

WATCH: Christie salutes those who helped save lives with Narcan

WATCH: Former addicted mother talks being away from children

WATCH: Mothers addicted to heroin share their stories, Part 2

Children of Heroin: Isaac Edelhauser

Berkeley heroin factory seized

Christie joins opioid addiction panel

Christie on New Jersey's heroin recovery coach program

Christie recognizes recovery coach from Toms River

WATCH: I'm addicted to heroin

WATCH: Former addicted mother shares her experience

The Warning Signs

A father's fight against heroin in Lacey

Doctor arrested for dealing prescription drugs

Taking unwanted drugs off the street

Studies differ

The issue has produced some conflicting research.

According to a 2009 survey by the Hazelden Betty Ford Foundation, 63 percent of respondents said that hearing their parents' stories about past alcohol or drug use would make them more responsible about their own use of drugs.

The foundation, based in Minnesota, was formed when Hazelden Treatment Center, a 12-step recovery program center that started in 1949, merged with Betty Ford Center in 2014. It is now one of the largest nonprofit treatment providers in the country with 17 programs in nine states. Their research is frequently cited by academic journals.

The survey, "Four Generations Overcoming Addiction," also reported that 90 percent of teens whose parents told them of past drug or alcohol use as teenagers were likely to consider them to be role models, as opposed to 93 percent of teens who knew nothing about their parents’ past. The point is that disclosure of drug use did little to harm the stature of parents in the view of their children and that honesty about past parental drug use is a positive thing in terms of a child's attitudes about illicit drug use, according to the survey.

“We’re certain that young people want, need and expect their parents to be their No. 1 source for accurate information,” William Moyers, a spokesman for the foundation said. “If not us, who? The internet? Much of that information is dangerous, inaccurate or enticing to young people.”

But research published in the social science journal Human Communication Research in 2013 warned that disclosure could have a bad unintended effect. The study focused on 561 sixth-through-eighth-grade students in Illinois.

“Knowing that their parents tried substances may actually normalize this behavior for youth,” wrote the study's lead author, Jennifer A. Kam, then of the University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign. “Parents’ discussion of their prior use may in some ways downplay the parents’ emphasis on the negative consequences of using substances.”

Parents’ references to their own drug use “actually may be perceived as permissive,” she wrote.

Even more disconcerting for truth advocates, the study found that if parents did not disclose their own drug use to their children but presented a strong anti-drug message the children were more likely to have anti-drug attitudes. In other words, nondisclosure with warnings about drugs worked. (The survey did not deal with what happens if children find out if those parents had drugs in their past.)

CLOSE Skip in Skip x Embed x Share Justine Frank of Hamilton discusses her regrets about not disclosing her drug use to her son Jon, who is struggling with addiction Ken Serrano

What you say

If a parent discloses past drug use to a child, regret, bad judgment and the dangers of drugs are the correct things to focus on, Lally said.

That discussion changes depending on the age of the child. If a 7-year-old asks, it's more important to find out why they are asking, although lying would still be unwise, Lally said.

A 17-year-old needs a more open discussion, she said.

Lally said the drug talk with children should not be just one-and-done.

“You want to make it more of a fluent, casual conversation over time,” she said. “Parents are so fearful of glorifying. We don’t discuss family addiction.”

And parents should realize “it’s awkward,” she said.

But those parents boasting of their exploits with drugs or merely focused on the fun of doing drugs can urge their kids to follow their lead without meaning to. Children view disclosures like that as a legacy they must uphold, Lally said.

“They not only emulate it but surpass it,” she said.

Contact Ken Serrano at kserrano@gannettnj.com

Read or Share this story: http://usat.ly/2lq9Rmi