Jeff Sessions is accused of using political funds to travel to an event where he met Russia’s ambassador to the US, despite the White House’s claim he was acting solely in his role as a senator.

The Attorney General has removed himself from investigations into alleged Russian interference in the US election amid mounting pressure over two encounters with Sergey Kislyak.

One of them occurred at an event held by the Heritage Foundation on the sidelines of the Republican National Convention July.

Sessions denies any wrongdoing

Donald Trump’s administration admitted that Mr Sessions met the Russian ambassador but insisted any discussions were in his former role as a senator for Alabama.

But financial records uncovered by the Wall Street Journal and ABC News show he used political funds from his re-election account for the trip, while sources said he discussed Mr Trump’s campaign with Mr Kislyak.

“I never met with any Russian officials to discuss issues of the campaign,” he said in a statement on Wednesday night.

At that same event, the ambassador also spoke with Carter Page, who briefly advised Mr Trump's campaign on foreign policy, a source told the Associated Press.

Mr Sessions failed to disclose his conversations with the Russian ambassador during his confirmation hearing in Congress but rejected suggestions he attempted to mislead anyone.

But he did admit that he should have been more careful in his testimony, adding: "I should have slowed down and said, 'But I did meet one Russian official a couple of times.'"

When specifically asked whether there was evidence of anyone affiliated with Mr Trump’s campaign communicating with the Russian government, he had replied: “I'm not aware of any of those activities.

Protesters called for Mr Sessions' resignation in front of the justice department in Washington (Nicholas Kamm /AFP/Getty)

”I have been called a surrogate at a time or two in that campaign and I did not have communications with the Russians and I'm unable to comment on it.“

He also answered ”no“ in a written questionnaire when asked about contacts regarding the election.

Sarah Isgur Flores, a spokesperson for Mr Sessions, said there was “absolutely nothing misleading” about his answer.

She added that Mr Sessions had more than 25 conversations with foreign ambassadors as a senior member of the Armed Services Committee in 2016, continuing: “He was asked during the hearing about communications between Russia and the Trump campaign - not about meetings he took as a senator and a member of the committee.”

Some Democrats have called on Mr Sessions not only to recuse himself from the investigation but to resign, accusing him of “lying under oath”.

Dmitry Peskov, Mr Putin’s spokesman, said it was normal for Russian diplomats to meet with American politicians and a foreign ministry representative described the meetings as “everyday business”.

The President backed his Attorney General on Thursday night, calling him an “honest man” and claiming the scandal was a “witch hunt” mounted by Democrats.

In pictures: Protests, pomp and Donald Trump







30 show all In pictures: Protests, pomp and Donald Trump

























































1/30 President-elect Donald Trump acknowledges guests as he arrives on the platform at the US Capitol in Washington DC Getty Images

2/30 Donald Trump is sworn in as the 45th president of the United States by Chief Justice John Roberts as Melania Trump looks on during the 58th Presidential Inauguration at the U.S. Capitol in Washington AP

3/30 President Donald Trump shakes hands with Justice John Roberts after taking the oath at inauguration ceremonies swearing in Trump as the 45th president of the United States Reuters

4/30 President Donald Trump raises his fists after his inauguration on the West Front of the U.S. Capitol Getty

5/30 U.S. President-elect Donald Trump greets outgoing President Barack Obama before Trump is inaugurated during ceremonies on the Capitol in Washington Reuters

6/30 resident-elect Donald Trump arrives on the platform of the US Capitol in Washington DC Getty Images

7/30 Attendees partake in the inauguration ceremonies to swear in Donald Trump as the 45th president of the United States at the U.S. Capitol in Washington DC Reuters

8/30 US President Donald Trump delivers his inaugural address during ceremonies at the US Capitol in Washington DC Getty

9/30 U.S. President Donald Trump waves with wife Melania during the Inaugural Parade in Washington DC Reuters

10/30 Protesters registered their rage against the new president Friday in a chaotic confrontation with police who used pepper spray and stun grenades in a melee just blocks from Donald Trump's inaugural parade route. Scores were arrested for trashing property and attacking officers AP

11/30 Demonstrators protest against US President Donald Trump in Washington DC Getty Images

12/30 A woman holds a sign before the start of the Presidential Inauguration of Donald Trump at Freedom Plaza in Washington DC Getty Images

13/30 Anti-Trump protesters prepare banners for a protest against the inauguration of US President-elect Donald Trump, in Berlin REUTERS

14/30 Demonstrators shout slogans against US President-elect Donald Trump in Washington DC Getty Images

15/30 Demonstrators march, block foot traffic and clash with U.S. Capitol Police at the entry checkpoints for the Inauguration of Donald Trump Alamy Live News

16/30 Demonstrators display a banner as people arrive for US President-elect Donald Trump's inauguration in Washington DC Getty Images

17/30 A man displays a placard as people lineup to get into the National Mall for the inauguration of US President-elect Donald Trump in Washington DC Getty Images

18/30 Protesters demonstrating against U.S. President Donald Trump raise their hands as they are surrounded by police on the sidelines of the inauguration in Washington DC Reuters

19/30 A demonstrator wearing a mask depicting Donald Trump protests outside the US Embassy in London Getty Images

20/30 Demonstrators hold placards as they protest outside the US Embassy in London Getty Images

21/30 Former US President George W. Bush and First Lady Laura Bush arrive for the Presidential Inauguration at the US Capitol Rex

22/30 Michelle Obama and Dr. Jill Biden share an umbrella as President Donald Trump delivers his inaugural address at the inauguration in Washington DC Rex

23/30 Former Democratic presidential nominee Hillary Clinton and former President Bill Clinton arrive on the West Front of the U.S. Capitol in Washington Reuters

24/30 U.S. Vice President Mike Pence takes the oath of office on the West Front of the U.S. Capitol in Washington, DC Getty Images

25/30 Advisors to President-elect Donald Trump, Kellyanne Conway and Steve Bannon depart from services at St. John's Church during the Presidential Inauguration in Washington Reuters

26/30 Protesters demonstrating against U.S. President Donald Trump take cover as they are hit by pepper spray by police on the sidelines of the inauguration in Washington DC Reuters

27/30 An activist demonstrating against U.S. President Donald Trump is helped after being hit by pepper spray on the sidelines of the inauguration in Washington DC Reuters

28/30 A police officer tries to tackle a protester demonstrating against U.S. President Donald Trump Reuters/Adrees Latif

29/30 Police arrest and detain a protester in the street in Washington DC Rex

30/30 A police officer falls to the ground as another shoots pepper spray at protesters demonstrating against U.S. President Donald Trump on the sidelines of the inauguration in Washington DC Reuters

“He did not say anything wrong,” Mr Trump wrote on Twitter. “He could have stated his response more accurately, but it was clearly not intentional.”

Conversations with Mr Kislyak were the cause of another blow to Mr Trump’s administration last month, when his national security adviser was forced to resign.

Michael Flynn admitted giving “incomplete information” to the Vice President over whether sanctions were discussed during phone calls in December.

A White House official said Mr Flynn met the Russian ambassador with Mr Trump's son-in-law, Jared Kushner, at Trump Tower in New York in December, describing the sit-down as a brief courtesy meeting.

Barack Obama’s administration had slapped successive rounds of penalties on the Russian government and selected individuals over the wars in Ukraine and Syria, which brought US-Russia relations down to the worst level since the Cold War.

Mr Trump has taken a markedly different approach to his predecessor, repeatedly praising Vladimir Putin during his election campaign and aiming to improve ties.

The President has dismissed a report by his own intelligence agencies after it found evidence of Kremlin involvement in cyber attacks that damaged Hillary Clinton’s campaign, and has claimed he has “no deals” or links in Russia.

But his continued refusal to disclose his tax returns, defying decades of precedent, has fuelled calls for the Senate Finance Committee to launch a formal review.

Democrats are also mounting a push for a wider investigation into alleged links between the Russian government and Mr Trump’s administration, transition and campaign teams.