A swift denunciation of bigotry

Mr. Trump has been criticized for his sluggish response to violence and vandalism against Jews, blacks and Muslims during his presidency. But the opening words of his speech were dedicated to tolerance and inclusion.

Advertisement Continue reading the main story

“Recent threats targeting Jewish community centers and vandalism of Jewish cemeteries, as well as last week’s shooting in Kansas City,” he said, “remind us that while we may be a nation divided on policies, we are a country that stands united in condemning hate and evil in all of its very ugly forms.”

Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. Sign Up Receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services. Thank you for subscribing. An error has occurred. Please try again later. View all New York Times newsletters.

Again, it’s hard to say if his statement reflected a genuine change of approach. Mr. Trump and some allies have suggested that recent bias-related episodes might be false-flag attempts by his opponents to embarrass him. But his words were welcomed in the House chamber, greeted by some of the most sustained applause of the evening.

Advertisement Continue reading the main story

Spiking the football in the first quarter

The polls have not been especially kind to Mr. Trump lately, but there is one distinct bright spot: 56 percent of voters in a Politico/Morning Consult poll released on Tuesday said that Mr. Trump was following through on his campaign promises.

This is no small matter for a president eager to prove he’s no mere talker. For all its messaging, personnel and operational struggles, Mr. Trump’s team has relentlessly executed a branding strategy aimed at projecting the image of a man of action fighting against gridlocked and corrupt Washington elites. Every day, Mr. Trump appears before the cameras where he is shown doing stuff like signing executive orders or convening panels of business, labor or political leaders.

Advertisement Continue reading the main story

“It’s been a little over a month since my inauguration, and I want to take this moment to update the nation on the progress I’ve made in keeping those promises,” he said, taking an extended bow for saving jobs at several factories across the country, renegotiating defense contracts, scrapping the Trans-Pacific Partnership, greenlighting two new fuel pipelines and cracking down on illegal immigration and criminal foreigners.

Never mind that Mr. Obama, the man Mr. Trump says left him “a mess” to clean up, had accomplished much more at this point in his term — including the stimulus package and a gender pay-equity law.

For all his newfound civility and message discipline, Mr. Trump cares most about this takeaway — proving he is an effective president at a time when his administration is being portrayed in the media as short-handed, adrift and conflict-ridden.

A serious case of the vagues

The president’s speech had admirable length (it clocked in at just over 60 minutes), the requisite number of ovations, about 90, and a succession of punchy pronouncements. What it didn’t have was very much of an explanation on how Mr. Trump plans to govern. There were hardly any details about his proposals on the big-ticket items that will most likely define his first term. That included his Obamacare repeal-and-replace pledge, his plan to overhaul the tax code, the big infrastructure package he’s vowed to ram through, or even his plan to shovel $54 billion into the Defense Department.

Advertisement Continue reading the main story

What’s going on with immigration?

Cracking down on illegal immigration is the central pillar of Mr. Trump’s election-winning popularity with white working-class voters, so much so that it was the subject of his most decisive action thus far as president: the bungled rollout of his executive order barring migrants from seven predominantly Muslim nations. But Mr. Trump and his team sent out some seriously mixed messages in the hours leading up to the address.

“We will soon begin the construction of a great, great wall along our southern border,” Mr. Trump declared, to the delight of many Republicans in the hall, who gave him a hearty standing ovation.

But earlier, in a sit-down with some of the country’s leading news anchors, the president seemed to soften his stance considerably, as he has done previously in private, suggesting that legal status be granted to millions of undocumented immigrants who have not committed serious crimes. Immigration hard-liners, led by his attorney general, Jeff Sessions, have long considered such a stance “amnesty.”

Advertisement Continue reading the main story

Mr. Trump never brought up the topic again — and didn’t touch on his prior reference to legalizing undocumented immigrants — raising questions about what position he’ll stake out in negotiations with Congress.