The Chancellor has broken the Conservatives’ manifesto pledge not to raise National Insurance contributions after increasing the headline rate of the tax for some workers in his Budget.

Independent white van traders and freelancers are likely to be worst hit by the policy, which will raise the tax rate twice in the next two years ahead of Brexit.

The 2015 Conservative election manifesto repeatedly pledged that “we will not raise VAT, National Insurance contributions or Income Tax” .

On another page the document stated that “we can commit to no increases in VAT, Income Tax or National Insurance. Tax rises on working people would harm our economy, reduce living standards and cost jobs”.

At the time Labour described the pledge as a “last-minute gimmick”.

In the Chancellor’s speech on Wednesday afternoon Mr Hammond however targeted self-employed workers with a hike in the rate of NI contributions. Self-employed workers will see their rate rise from 9 per cent to 10 per cent in 2018, with a further rise to 11 per cent in 2019

Budget 2017: Seven key points

Treasury officials say 2.5 million people will be hit by £240 a year by the NICS class 4 change. The number of people seeing a NICS rise in April 2018 when it comes in will fall to 1.6 million because of the move to abolish class 2 NICS previously announced JIC.

He justified the policy on the basis that differences in benefits between employees and self-employed workers “have been very substantially reduced” in recent years.

A Labour spokesperson said: "It is clear the Tories have broken their manifesto promise in order to hit low and middle earners with the sole-trader tax while continuing with tax giveaways for the super rich and corporations."

A Government spokesperson tried to defend the policy by arguing that the Government remained committed to its manifesto pledges and that detail of the NICs rise had been set out in legislation after the election.

Speaking after the Budget announcement David Gauke, the chief secretary to the Treasury, defended the decision to break the manifesto promise.

UK news in pictures







12 show all UK news in pictures





















1/12 5 March 2017 The sun rises over Bingham in Nottinghamshir Neil Squires/PA Wire

2/12 5 March 2017 Annie Lennox, Mayor of London Sadiq Khan and Bianca Jagger, at the start of the March4Women event in London, ahead of International Women's Day Dominic Lipinski/PA

3/12 4 March 2017 David Haye after being knocked down in his bout against Tony Bellew at the O2 Arena, London Reuters

4/12 4 March 2017 Tony Bellew speaks with David Haye after his victory during the heavyweight contest at The O2 Nick Potts/PA Wire

5/12 4 March 2017 Britain Boxing - David Haye v Tony Bellew - O2 Arena, London - Tony Bellew celebrates winning the fight Reuters

6/12 4 March 2017 World number one Andy Murray of Great Britain celebrates with the championship trophy after winning his ATP final tennis match against Spain's Fernando Verdasco, during the Dubai Duty Free Championships. Murray clinched his first title of 2017 and 45th of his career as he dominated Spain's Fernando Verdasco 6-3, 6-2 to win the Dubai Tennis Championships, claiming the trophy in the emirate for the first time after losing the final five years ago to Roger Federer Getty Images

7/12 5 March 2017 Jack Mckendrick from North Wales, carrying his partner Kirsty Jones, wins the 10th UK Wife Carrying Race in Dorking, Surrey PA wire

8/12 5 March 2017 Competitors start the 10th UK Wife Carrying Race in Dorking, Surrey Gareth Fuller/PA Wire

9/12 4 March 2017 'Our NHS' demonstrators protest outside of the parliament in London EPA

10/12 4 March 2017 Protesters march with banners and placards against private companies' involvement in the National Health Service (NHS) and social care services provision and against cuts to NHS funding in central London Getty Images

11/12 4 March 2017 Sinn Fein northern leader Michelle O'Neill stands in front a mural of republican hunger striker Bobby Sands after holding a post election press conference at Sinn Fein headquarters in Belfast, Northern Ireland Getty Images

12/12 2 March 2017 Mother Pam Duggan and aunt Carole Duggan arriving at the Royal Courts of Justice in London for the latest round of a legal battle by the family of Mark Duggan, whose fatal shooting by a police marksman sparked nationwide riots. They are going to the Court of Appeal to challenge a decision by three High Court judges that an inquest jury was legally entitled to bring in its 8-2 majority verdict that he was 'lawfully killed' Nick Ansell/PA Wire

“I think we have got a situation where we’ve closed the gap in terms of benefits entitlements, effectively eliminated it, that we have got a growing situation with the costs and the sense that if we don’t take action … we are placing an unfair burden on the 85 per cent of employees,” he told after BBC News.

“I think if you look at our record as a Government over the course of this period in time you’ll see it is a record where we are cutting direct taxes … that when it comes to those direct taxes we are not looking for more, but there is a very specific case and the more we look at this the more we can see there is a problem that is going to build up if we don’t take action on this.”