Chicago police investigate the scene of a fatal shooting in the Lawndale neighborhood of Chicago, Tuesday, Feb. 14, 2017. A two-year-old boy and his 26-year-old uncle were killed in the attack. (Photo: E. Jason Wambsgans, AP)

CHICAGO — After President Trump assailed violence in Chicago during his first major address to Congress, the city’s mayor offered a blunt response: More action and less talk on the issue from the president would be helpful.

Trump has hammered repeatedly at Chicago’s murder rate – the city tallied more murders than New York and Los Angeles combined last year – and during his Tuesday address he described the shootings and killings in the nation’s third largest city as something “not acceptable in our society.”

But once again, Trump didn’t offer any specifics on how he would go about fixing Chicago’s violence problem.

Mayor Rahm Emanuel has met in recent weeks with White House Chief of Staff Reince Priebus and Trump’s son-in-law and adviser Jared Kushner to talk about the violence. The mayor has called on Trump to push for more federal gun prosecutions in the city, increase the number of federal ATF agents in Chicago, and boost funding for mentoring, after-school and summer jobs programs for young people in some of Chicago’s most violence-plagued neighborhoods.

After Trump’s latest salvo against Chicago, Emanuel made clear that Trump’s criticism without action is wearing thin.

“Because this is so important, I’ll always be ready with this list whenever the President asks,” Emanuel said. “The better question, I’d suggest, is whether the President cares enough about violence in our city to do more than talk or tweet about it.”

The latest Trump Chicago critique was tame compared to the more than half-dozen sharply worded comments he's made on the campaign trail and during the early days of his presidency. In some of his punchier rebukes, Trump compared Chicago to a “war-torn” nation, referred to the violence in Chicago as carnage, and made a vague threat from his Twitter account to 'send in the Feds!' if Chicago officials didn’t stem the violence.

If Chicago doesn't fix the horrible "carnage" going on, 228 shootings in 2017 with 42 killings (up 24% from 2016), I will send in the Feds! — Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) January 25, 2017

The city tallied more than 760 murders and 4,300 shootings last year. This year is off to nearly as bloody a start with 94 murders through February compared to 98 murders through the first two months of 2016, according to Chicago Police Department data released Wednesday.

The city also recorded 404 shooting incidents so far this year, slightly more than the 399 shooting incidents recorded through the same period last year.

The police department data does not include killings on expressways within city limits, fatal police-involved shootings or homicides in which a person was found to have killed someone in self-defense. If those incidents were included, there have already been more than 100 homicides in Chicago this year, according to a count kept by the Chicago Sun-Times.

In his address to Congress, Trump tied the surge in Chicago’s violence to what he sees as a larger problem plaguing other large urban areas around the country.

Trump noted that the overall U.S. murder rate in 2015 experienced its largest single-year increase in nearly 50 years. While true that there was a significant spike, the overall U.S. murder rate hovered around 4.9 murders per 100,000 in 2015 – far fewer killings than the peak of 10 murders per 100,000 in 1980.

Trump suggested that stemming the current “cycle of violence” is connected to improving public support for law enforcement.

“Every American child should be able to grow up in a safe community, to attend a great school and to have access to a high-paying job,” Trump said. “But to create this future, we must work with – not against – the men and women of law enforcement. We must build bridges of cooperation and trust – not drive the wedge of disunity and division.

The comments echoed the sentiments of Attorney General Jeff Sessions who signaled in a speech this week that the Justice Department would depart from the Obama administration practice of suing local police departments to force reforms related to violations of excessive force policies, racial discrimination and other misconduct.

During the Obama administration, more than two dozen local law enforcement agencies – among them Ferguson, Mo., Baltimore and Chicago — were the subjects of civil rights investigations into misconduct. Sessions suggested that such federal probes have “undermined respect for police and made — often times — their job more difficult.

More than three-quarters of U.S. law enforcement officers say they are reluctant to use force when necessary, and nearly as many – 72% – say they or their colleagues are more reluctant to stop and question people who seem suspicious as a result of increased scrutiny of police, according to a study published in January by the Pew Research Center.

Yet among Chicago-area politicians, the Trump commentary on urban violence is being dismissed as shallow.

Sen. Tammy Duckworth, D-Ill., said Trump’s speech reflected a “deeply flawed understanding of the causes of gun violence in Chicago and across the country.”

Rep. Bobby Rush, a Democrat whose district includes parts of Chicago’s South Side that have suffered a disproportionate amount of the city’s violence, took to Twitter to dismiss Trump’s speech as “more campaign promises on steroids.”

The congressman, however, added that he invited Trump to come to Chicago, and that the president accepted.

Follow USA TODAY Chicago correspondent Aamer Madhani on Twitter: @AamerISmad

Read or Share this story: http://usat.ly/2lzilDL