CLOSE Skip in Skip x Embed x Share Australia's postal service director has resigned after his shockingly high salary went public. Buzz60

File picture - A letter carrier moves mail into his van to begin delivery Monday, Dec. 5, 2011, at a post office in Seattle. (Photo: Elaine Thompson, AP)

A furor has erupted in Australia after the head of the country’s government-owned postal service was revealed to have earned 5.6 million Australian dollars, or $4.3 million, last year.

Ahmed Fahour, the director of Australia Post, resigned on Feb. 22 after his whopping pay packet was revealed by a Senate committee. The postal service had attempted to conceal it.

Fahour's pay is 10 times that of Prime Minister Malcolm Turnbull, who said he thought it was “a very big salary for that job.”

“I think that salary, that remuneration is too high,” Turnbull said.

Fahour said he was not resigning because of his salary becoming public, but because he felt it was the right time to step down after seven years in the role. He will leave the job in July.

John Stanhope, the chairman of Australia Post, told a Senate committee hearing in the capital Canberra on Tuesday that it had been a mistake not to publicly disclose the salaries of senior management.

“We need our salary packages to be commercially competitive to attract and retain talented people in a competitive, executive talent market," he said, according to the Australian Associated Press.

Carl Rhodes, a professor of management at the University of Technology Sydney, told the New York Times that Fahour’s counterpart in the United States Postal Service earns about $416,000 a year.

Average earnings in Australia are 1,160 Australian dollars ($889.50) a week or $46,300 a year, according to a news.com.au report in January. The news outlet said the difference would be “much larger” if it were not for an increase in part-time working over the past few decades.

In 2015, the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development, which enables governments to work together to improve economic wellbeing, said the countries with the highest gap in disposable income between richest and poorest in its 34 members were:

1. Chile

2. Mexico

3. Turkey

4. United States

5. Israel

Read or Share this story: http://usat.ly/2m6VjqZ