Annie Lennox has suggested that US President Donald Trump has been “helpful” in drumming up support for women’s rights.

The Eurythmics star, 62, said his “locker room talk” acted as a “catalyst” for many women as she took part in an event in London today, ahead of International Women’s Day on Wednesday.

Comments made by Mr Trump in a 2005 leaked video in which he bragged about grabbing women “by the pussy” made global headlines during the US presidential campaign.

Lennox told the Press Association: “In a weird kind of way that event that happened actually catalysed the issue for a lot of girls and women in a particular way that became very strong.

Thousands attend Women's March on Washington







18 show all Thousands attend Women's March on Washington

































1/18 Protesters gather outside the White House at the finish of the Women's March on Washington on January 21, 2017 in Washington, DC. Large crowds attended the anti-Trump rally a day after U.S. President Donald Trump was sworn in as the 45th U.S. president. Mario Tama/Getty

2/18 Protesters hold up signage near the Washington Monument during the Women's March on Washington January 21, 2017 in Washington, DC. Large crowds are attending the anti-Trump rally a day after U.S. President Donald Trump was sworn in as the 45th U.S. president. Drew Angerer/Getty

3/18 Protesters gather during the Women's March on Washington January 21, 2017 in Washington, DC. The march is expected to draw thousands from across the country to protest newly inaugurated President Donald Trump. Aaron P. Bernstein/Getty

4/18 Protesters arrive at the Capital South Metro station for the Women's March on Washington on January 21, 2017 in Washington, DC. Following the inauguration of Donald Trump as the 45th president of the United States, the Women's March has spread to be a global march calling on all concerned citizens to stand up for equality, diversity and inclusion and for women's rights to be recognised around the world as human rights. Jessica Kourkounis/Getty

5/18 Protesters arrive on the platform at the Capital South Metro station for the Women's March on Washington on January 21, 2017 in Washington, DC. Following the inauguration of Donald Trump as the 45th president of the United States, the Women's March has spread to be a global march calling on all concerned citizens to stand up for equality, diversity and inclusion and for women's rights to be recognised around the world as human rights. Jessica Kourkounis/Getty

6/18 Demonstrators protest during the Women's March along Pennsylvania Avenue January 21, 2017 in Washington, DC. Hundreds of thousands of protesters spearheaded by women's rights groups demonstrated across the US to send a defiant message to US President Donald Trump. Joshua Lott/AFP/Getty Images

7/18 WASHINGTON, DC - JANUARY 21: Protesters attend the Women's March on Washington on January 21, 2017 in Washington, DC. Following the inauguration of Donald Trump as the 45th president of the United States, the Women's March has spread to be a global march calling on all concerned citizens to stand up for equality, diversity and inclusion and for women's rights to be recognised around the world as human rights. Jessica Kourkounis/Getty

8/18 A marcher holds a sign during the Women's March on Washington January 21, 2017 in Washington, DC. The march is expected to draw thousands from across the country to protest newly inaugurated President Donald Trump. Aaron P. Bernstein/Getty

9/18 A woman chants while attending the Women's March on Washington on January 21, 2017 in Washington, DC. Large crowds are attending the anti-Trump rally a day after U.S. President Donald Trump was sworn in as the 45th U.S. president. Mario Tama/Getty

10/18 Protesters attend the Women's March on Washington on January 21, 2017 in Washington, DC. Large crowds are attending the anti-Trump rally a day after U.S. President Donald Trump was sworn in as the 45th U.S. president. Mario Tama/Getty

11/18 Protesters march in Washington, DC, during the Women's March on January 21, 2017. Hundreds of thousands of people flooded US cities Saturday in a day of women's rights protests to mark President Donald Trump's first full day in office. Robyn Beck/AFP/Getty Images

12/18 A protester gestures toward the White House on the Ellipse near the South Lawn of the White House during the Women's March on Washington January 21, 2017 in Washington, DC. Large crowds are attending the anti-Trump rally a day after U.S. President Donald Trump was sworn in as the 45th U.S. president. Drew Angerer/Getty

13/18 A protester, holding a Donald Trump doll wearing a pink cap, marches in Washington, DC, during the Womens March on January 21, 2017. Hundreds of thousands of people flooded US cities Saturday in a day of women's rights protests to mark President Donald Trump's first full day in office. Robyn Beck/AFP/Getty Images

14/18 Protesters take to the National Mall to demonstrate against the presidency of Donald Trump Washington, DC on January 21, 2017. Hundreds of thousands of protesters spearheaded by women's rights groups demonstrated across the US to send a defiant message to US President Donald Trump. Dominick Reuter/AFP/Getty Images

15/18 Protesters march during the Women's March on Washington on January 21, 2017 in Washington, DC. Large crowds are attending the anti-Trump rally a day after U.S. President Donald Trump was sworn in as the 45th U.S. president. Mario Tama/Getty

16/18 Demonstrators gather on The Ellipse during the Women's March on Washington January 21, 2017 in Washington, DC. Hundreds of thousands of protesters spearheaded by women's rights groups demonstrated across the US to send a defiant message to US President Donald Trump. Zach Gibson/AFP/Getty Images

17/18 Demonstrators march down Pennsylvania Avenue during the Women's March on Washington January 21, 2017 in Washington, DC. Hundreds of thousands of protesters spearheaded by women's rights groups demonstrated across the US to send a defiant message to US President Donald Trump. Zach Gibson/AFP/Getty Images

18/18 Protester's signs are left near the White House during the Women's March on Washington on January 21, 2017 in Washington, DC. Large crowds are attending the anti-Trump rally a day after U.S. President Donald Trump was sworn in as the 45th U.S. president. (Photo by Mario Tama/Getty Images) Mario Tama/Getty

“All of a sudden there were a lot of people putting on pink pussy hats and saying no.

“It actually became very real for them, because when someone says ‘It’s just locker room talk’, actually don’t we think it’s time that we should address that, particularly if they’re the leading representative of one of the biggest, most influential countries in the world?

“So that made women very angry, that made the issue very clear for them.

“But actually what we’re saying is that the issue is huge. Looking at the developing world, that is just the tip of the iceberg.

“So there’s so much more to address. We’ve been banging this drum for a long, long time. I welcome anybody that comes here, men and women.

“So in a funny way, the Donald Trump statement is almost helpful as a catalyst.”

Lennox was among a host of campaigners at the CARE International March4Women, which aimed to shine a light on the inequalities faced by women and girls around the world.

Dr Helen Pankhurst, the great-granddaughter of suffragette Emmeline, said having someone like Mr Trump in power is a “major problem”.

But she said the issue is not just the man himself, but also the people who voted for him and “therefore the wider social attitudes”.

Dr Pankhurst said she feels the world is “more polarised than ever before”, telling the Press Association: “I feel right now the world is so much more polarised between those who believe in going backwards and those who believe in going forwards.

“I just hope, on balance and on reflection, as we continue to explain why we still need to have change, that the world will continue to progress.”

She added: “I absolutely feel that what we are seeing at the moment through this polarisation is more boots on the ground in terms of people expressing their views.”

Asked what her great-grandmother would make of today’s world, she said the famous campaigner would say “let’s celebrate your successes” but would also warn not to take anything for granted.

“The type of misogyny that she experienced – that the suffragettes experienced – still presents itself today.

“It presents itself through things like social media, so it’s changing, it’s morphing, but it’s still very much there.

“And she’d be saying ‘Get out there, get out there on the streets, use modern technology’, so use those same methods of social media that can be used against you, use them in terms of getting that voice of change and keep doing what’s needed so that we can get to equality,” she said.

When asked if she thinks Emmeline would have been surprised at comments like Mr Trump’s being made in today’s era, she said: “No I don’t think she would have been surprised, because there’s a theme running through these ideas of a male-dominated society.

“It’s the same today as it was 100 years ago. I mean, she’d be sad. We all are. We all are slightly in disbelief at what’s happened.”