French presidential candidate François Fillon urged his supporters “not to give up the fight” in the race to the Élysée Palace after his wife hit back at critics in a “fake work” scandal that has all but ended his campaign.

Speaking in front of a crowd of thousands in Paris, the 63-year-old candidate for Les Républicains party embarked on a last-ditch attempt to save his candidacy, giving what commentators dubbed “the speech of his life”.

In calling the rally, Mr Fillon aimed to show his opponents he still has a large body of dedicated support in spite of being mired in a weeks-long series of corruption allegations.

Later in the day, he declared during a television interview that he would not withdraw his candidacy, despite growing pressures for him to go.

"Nobody can prevent me from being a candidate," he said, adding that his decision was based on the general interest and that any "improvised candidate" would lead to failure.

Meanwhile, his Wales-born wife Penelope Fillon defended having worked for her husband in her first interview since those claims emerged. Newspaper allegations, that she and the couple’s children were paid substantial sums for parliamentary aide work they never carried out, have seen Mr Fillon go from clear favourite to third in the polls behind youthful independent Emmanuel Macron and far-right leader Marine Le Pen.

Mr Fillon and his wife have repeatedly denied any wrongdoing and the right-wing candidate slammed the “Penelopegate” scandal as a “political assassination”.

Speaking to the Journal du Dimanche, Ms Fillon said: “He needed someone that carried out his tasks. If it hadn’t been me, he would have paid someone else to do it, so we decided that it would be me."

She said the breaking scandal had felt like being “struck by lightning”.

“This is the worst I have had to live through in my life," she said. "I was so surprised by the violence and hysteria that I have found refuge in my Welsh stubbornness.

“I did not believe that I was doing politics. I was working for my husband. My role was to help him interact with his constituency as an elected representative."

On the prospect of her husband stepping down from the presidential race, she said: "I told him that he had to keep going until the end. But the decision will be down to him."

Ms Fillon's words of support for her husband come as senior conservative politicians said they would propose an alternative candidate to Mr Fillon as soon as Monday morning.

Christian Estrosi, a senior Conservative politician and a close ally of former President Nicolas Sarkozy, told BFM TV: “In the coming hours, we will propose an initiative.

"We do not have the time to debate who has the most talent. I don't think any of the forty-somethings in our political movement, who have talent, can take on the role to bring us together."

"The easiest thing obviously ... Is the person who came second in the primaries and that quite simply is Alain Juppé,” he said.

Mr Estrosi is not the only one to call for Mr Fillon to leave.

The head of France’s centre-right Union of Democrats and Independents (UDI) party, Jean-Christophe Lagarde, also said he wanted Mr Fillon to quit the election race in favour of former prime minister Mr Juppé. He warned that if Mr Fillon did not stand down, it would mean defeat for the conservatives.

Speaking on Europe 1 radio, he said: “With Fillon it's a certain failure. This [rally] is an excess because you don't put the street up against the [state’s] institutions. Even if there are 200,000 people, to win a presidential election you need 20 million people.

“In the Olympics when the gold medal winner is disqualified, then it’s the silver medal holder that takes over.”

World news in pictures







32 show all World news in pictures





























































1/32 5 March 2017 A member of the Tinstix of Dynamite aerobatics team flies in front of a wall of fire during the Australian International Airshow in Melbourne Getty Images

2/32 5 March 2017 A participant stretches on the beach before the start of an annual two-mile sea swimming competition in Colombo, Sri Lanka Reuters

3/32 5 March 2017 Participants jump into water during the annual two-mile sea swimming competition in Colombo, Sri Lanka Reuters

4/32 5 March 2017 Japan's Emperor Akihito and Empress Michiko wave to bid farewell as they depart for Thailand from Phu Bai International Airport in the central city of Hue, Vietnam, ending their six-day long visit to the country EPA

5/32 5 March 2017 Reconnaissance unmanned aerial vehicles (UAVs) on display indoors at the International Defence Exhibition in Iraq (IQDEX) 2017 Getty Images

6/32 5 March 2017 A participant presents hisr vintage vehicle during the 59th International Vintage Car Rally Barcelona-Sitges, at plaza Sant Jaume in Barcelona, Spain. Some 50 vintage vehicles take part in the two-day long event, through the coastal line of Mediterranean Sea from Barcelona to Sitges EPA

7/32 5 March 2017 Participants present their vintage cars during the 59th International Vintage Car Rally Barcelona-Sitges, at plaza Sant Jaume in Barcelona, Spain EPA

8/32 5 March 2017 New York Governor Mario Cuomo looks around the 'Hall of Names' in the Yad Vashem Holocaust Memorial in Jerusalem. The hall has portraits of some 600 individuals exterminated by the Nazis during the Holocaust of World War II EPA

9/32 5 March 2017 The Chinese police officers on self balancing police vehicles patrol in Tiananmen Square before the opening of the fifth Session of the 12th National People's Congress (NPC) outside the Great Hall of the People in Beijing, China EPA

10/32 5 March 2017 A general view shows the opening session of the National People's Congress, China's legislature, in Beijing's Great Hall of the People Getty Images

11/32 5 March 2017 Hostesses jump as they pose for a picture during the opening of the National People's Congress in Beijing Getty Images

12/32 5 March 2017 A picture taken in the Iraqi capital Bahgdad shows rocket launchers on display indoors at the International Defence Exhibition in Iraq (IQDEX) 2017 Getty Images

13/32 5 March 2017 A Pakistani army helicopter flies past floodlights as it patrols over The Gaddafi Cricket Stadium in Lahore, ahead of the final cricket match of the Pakistan Super League (PSL) between Quetta Gladiators and Peshawar Zalmi Getty Images

14/32 5 March 2017 A Buddhist devotee dashes barefoot through flames during the Nagatoro Hi-Matsuri, or fire walking festival, to herald the coming of spring, at the Fudoji temple in Nagatoro town, Saitama prefecture Getty Images

15/32 5 March 2017 A resident inspects their personal house belongings after a moderate earthquake hit the Surigao city, southern Philippines Reuters

16/32 5 March 2017 People with portraits of Soviet leader Joseph Stalin gather outside his museum in his native town of Gori, some 80 kms outside Tbilisi, on the 64th anniversary of Stalin's death. While historians blame Stalin for the deaths of millions in purges, prison camps and forced collectivization, many in Russia still praise him for leading the Soviet Union to victory over Nazi Germany in World War I Getty Images

17/32 5 March 2017 Head of Ukraine's tax and customs service Roman Nasirov, who is under investigation over the suspected embezzlement and who according to several unconfirmed local media reports recently suffered a heart attack, lies inside the defendant's cage during a court hearing in Kiev, Ukraine Reuters

18/32 4 March 2017 Flag bearer Jesslyn Swirka rides her horse down Harrison Avenue in Leadville, Colorado at the start of the 68th annual Leadville Ski Joring weekend competition in Leadville, Colorado. Skijoring, which has its origins as a competitive sport in Scandinavia, has been adapted over the years to include a team made up of a rider and skier who must navigate jumps, slalom gates, and the spearing of rings for points. Leadville, with an elevation of 10,152 feet (3,094 m), the highest incorporated city in North America, has been hosting skijoring competitions since 1949 Getty Images

19/32 4 March 2017 A rider races down Harrison Avenue while a skier navigates the course during the 68th annual Leadville Ski Joring weekend competition in Leadville, Colorado Getty Images

20/32 4 March 2017 A demonstrator in opposition of US President Donald Trump sets a hat on fire during a 'People 4 Trump' rally in Berkeley, California Reuters

21/32 4 March 2017 A demonstrator in support of US President Donald Trump swings a stick towards a group of counter-protesters during a 'People 4 Trump' rally in Berkeley, California Reuters

22/32 4 March 2017 A bloodied supporter of US President Donald Trump is seen after a 'People 4 Trump' rally and counter-protest turned violent in Berkeley, California Reuters

23/32 4 March 2017 Women take part in a performance to protest against the disappearance of the 43 students of Ayotzinapa College Raul Isidro Burgos in Guerrero, in Mexico City, Mexico Reuters

24/32 4 March 2017 A woman looks on as she takes part in a performance to protest against the disappearance of the 43 students of Ayotzinapa College Raul Isidro Burgos in Guerrero, in Mexico City, Mexico Reuters

25/32 4 March 2017 An Iraqi special forces soldier fires at a drone operated by Islamic State militants Islamic State militants in Mosul, Iraq Reuters

26/32 4 March 2017 A man cries while carrying his daughter as he walks from Islamic State controlled part of Mosul towards Iraqi special forces soldiers during a battle in Mosul, Iraq Reuters

27/32 4 March 2017 Iraqi special forces soldiers walk in a street in Mosul, Iraq Reuters

28/32 4 March 2017 An Iraqi special forces soldier helps a family carry their child to cross from Islamic State controlled part of Mosul to Iraqi forces controlled part of Mosul, Iraq Reuters

29/32 4 March 2017 A man looks towards a Russian helicopter as it flies over ruins in the historic city of Palmyra, Syria Reuters

30/32 2 March 2017 Policemen and a passerby look at pictures of the ones killed due to alleged involvement in illegal drugs, during a protest against extra-judicial killings at an open area of a Roman Catholic Church in Paranaque city, metro Manila, Philippines Reuters

31/32 2 March 2017 Families with slain loved ones who they say were killed due to alleged involvement in illegal drugs, weep during a Holy Eucharist mass against extra-judicial killings (EJK) inside a Roman Catholic Church in Paranaque city, metro Manila, Philippines Reuters

32/32 2 March 2017 People hold photos of their family members, who they say were killed due to their alleged involvement in illegal drugs, during a protest against extra-judicial killings (EJK) while marching in an open area of a Roman Catholic Church in Paranaque city, metro Manila, Philippines Reuters

Paris mayor Anne Hidalgo also spoke out against the rally saying it was “against republican values” and she previously urged Mr Fillon “to get his dignity back” by calling it off.

Even inside the Fillon camp, support seemed to dwindle.

A poll published in the Journal du Dimanche showed more than 70 per cent of French voters want Mr Fillon to withdraw his presidential bid.

The same survey suggests Mr Juppé, who lost to Mr Fillon in the November party primary, was best placed to step in. He received a personal approval rating of 64 per cent compared to 29 per cent for Mr Fillon.

Immediately following Mr Fillon’s television interview, Mr Juppé announced that he will hold a press conference on Monday morning.

It comes after Mr Fillon's campaign manager Patrick Stefanini announced his resignation – the third aide to quit in quick succession.

Mr Fillon, who is renowned for his reactionary views, also pulled out of an early Monday morning radio appearance that aimed to discuss his campaign.

Europe 1 radio presenter Thomas Sotto tweeted: “François Fillon has officially cancelled his appearance on Europe 1’s morning show tomorrow.”

Opinion polls continue to show Mr Fillon would fail to make it to the second round of the election. Instead, centrist candidate Macron is benefiting from a boost in the polls and is consolidating his position to win the election in a head-to-head against Front National candidate Marine Le Pen.

The first round of the French elections will be held on 23 April and all presidential candidates must be formally endorsed by at least 500 elected officials before 17 March.