In an unprecedented gaffe, "La La Land" was accidentally awarded the Oscar for best picture before producers realized the award actually belonged to "Moonlight." Here's how the moment played out, plus other highlights from the 2017 Academy Awards. (Nicki DeMarco/The Washington Post)

After “La La Land” producers Jordan Horowitz and Marc Platt delivered their acceptance speeches for best picture, fellow producer Fred Berger discovered that their movie was not, in fact, the victor — and he offered up an awkward “We lost, by the way” before backing away from the podium like Homer Simpson disappearing into a shrub.

Berger wasn’t about to stick around to figure out what exactly happened — and who could blame him? It was an embarrassing situation.

But amid the confusion, there was one person willing to take charge and explain, even though he had just given an acceptance speech for a career-defining award he did not actually win.

Horowitz marched up to the microphone to make an announcement.

“ ‘Moonlight’ won,” he declared.

“Guys, guys, I’m sorry. No. There’s a mistake,” Horowitz added. “ ‘Moonlight,’ you guys won best picture.”

“This is not a joke,” he continued.

[The minute-by-minute breakdown of the shocking ‘Moonlight’/’La La Land’ best-picture mix-up]

“Come up here,” he commanded, motioning for the “Moonlight” team to come to the stage and collect the top Oscar that Horowitz briefly thought his film had just won.

While the people in the audience were gasping with surprise, Horowitz — as if to assure them this wasn’t fake news — held up the card just pulled from the correct award envelope, so that the cameras could zoom in.

“ ‘Moonlight,’ ” he said. “Best picture.”



Jordan Horowitz with the proof. (Mark Ralston/AFP/Getty Images)

Host Jimmy Kimmel looked as if he wanted to be anywhere but on an Oscars stage at that moment.

He tried to make some jokes. The host said he wished that “La La Land” and “Moonlight” could win — but Horowitz wasn’t having it.

“I’m going to be really thrilled to hand this to my friends from ‘Moonlight,’ ” he said.

[Here’s the entire Oscars best-picture disaster, annotated]

Horowitz wasn’t just a gracious loser; he became the closest thing the Oscars can get to a folk hero.

This one is for LA LA LAND producer @jehorowitz… may we all have such grace under even less extraordinary circumstances. pic.twitter.com/uofyMqSEYS — Franklin Leonard (@franklinleonard) February 27, 2017

Jordan Horowitz should be Time's Man of the Year. — John Podhoretz (@jpodhoretz) February 27, 2017

You are a real class act @jehorowitz #Oscars — Jessica Chastain (@jes_chastain) February 27, 2017

That @jehorowitz handled that with class, grace, and genuine happiness for the winner is why he is at the pinnacle of the game. — Justin Marks (@Justin_Marks_) February 27, 2017

Tell you this though: @jehorowitz wins for leadership & class. — Jeffrey Wright (@jfreewright) February 27, 2017

Not to be overlooked — @jehorowitz just handled a complete train wreck with dignity and grace on the biggest stage in the world. — Seth Grahame-Smith (@sethgs) February 27, 2017

It’s funny, right? Because what he did wasn’t exactly revolutionary. He told the truth even though it was difficult and awkward and embarrassing, because he had just stood in front of the world and thanked his friends and family for an award that wasn’t his.

Horowitz could have slunk offstage and let Kimmel and Warren Beatty continue to fumble through an explanation.

Instead he did the dirty work with what looked like pride, sticking around to hug his friends from “Moonlight.”



“La La Land” producer Jordan Horowitz, right, embraces Barry Jenkins, the director of “Moonlight,” after the presentation of the Oscar for best picture was corrected. (Lucy Nicholson/Reuters)

This kind of behavior shouldn’t be all that exceptional, but truth has been hard to come by lately. We’ve just come off an election in which politicians have happily danced around facts, and the president continues to make false and misleading claims.

When the truth is inconvenient, a lot of people spin it or bend it to their will. But that, apparently, is not Horowitz’s style.

Now that Horowitz has been thrust into the spotlight, he’s received a massive outpouring of support — and he was interviewed Monday on ABC’s “Good Morning America,” calling the episode a “surreal moment.” But he doesn’t want people to lose sight of what’s important.

“I want to make sure that we’re all talking about the fact that a $1.5 million picture about gay black youth in America won best picture at the Academy Awards,” Horowitz told The Washington Post by phone Monday. “That’s a pretty sensational thing.”

1 of 44 Full Screen Autoplay Close Skip Ad × See photos of the Oscars: The winners, presenters and performers of 2017 View Photos “Moonlight” wins Best Picture and “La La Land” wins big at the 89th Academy Awards ceremony Caption “Moonlight” wins Best Picture and “La La Land” wins big at the 89th Academy Awards ceremony Director Barry Jenkins celebrates on stage with producer Adele Romanski after “Moonlight” won the best picture award. Mark Ralston/AFP via Getty Images Buy Photo Wait 1 second to continue.

He had just given a speech about wanting to do more bold and diverse work, he said — so it seemed appropriate somehow that he was able then to hand off his award to such a bold, diverse movie.

There’s no need to spend any more time talking about what he did last night, Horowitz insisted.

“That moment on stage was not about anything but moving the spotlight to where it should have rightfully been,” he said.

Besides, what he did was all just part of the job.

“In a crisis, [producers] are levelheaded and decisive, and I try to operate from a place of doing what’s right on a moment-to-moment basis,” he said. “There was a real breakdown of process, and setting it right was in my mind the only option.”

“All I know is there was a moment when I knew and it needed to be corrected,” he added. “There was just so much confusion. I think people needed to see that piece of paper. There needed to be some real definitive clarity and truth in that moment.”

During awards season, the “La La Land” and “Moonlight” producers became close. They’ve been on the road together since both of their movies screened at the Telluride Film Festival.

“I said it last night, I’ll say it again: I love those guys,” Horowitz said. “This awards-circuit thing is a grind. It’s a real full-time job, but we’re spending a lot of time together. All those guys, I would call them friends, and it needed to be fixed for them, too, as much as anybody.”

[Reactions to Oscars flub: Disbelief, Steve Harvey jokes and election-night metaphors]

Backstage, after one of the most shocking moments in Oscar history, “Moonlight” director Barry Jenkins told reporters that “the folks from ‘La La Land’ were so gracious. I can’t imagine being in their position and having to do that. … I wasn’t speechless because we won. I was speechless because I — it was so gracious of them to do that.”

Jordan Horowitz. Wow. I'm slipping slowly into reflection, perspective. Much respect to that dude — Barry Jenkins (@BandryBarry) February 27, 2017

Thank you, Barry. Congratulations and much love. ❤ https://t.co/BSwk9T6Si4 — Jordan Horowitz (@jehorowitz) February 27, 2017

When Horowitz was a victor, he seemed like a nice-enough guy.

But as a loser, he showed what a champion for truth looks like.

1 of 53 Full Screen Autoplay Close Skip Ad × Red carpet: What celebrities wore to the Oscars View Photos Stars arrive at the 89th Academy Awards. Caption Stars arrive at the 89th Academy Awards. Justin Timberlake, left, and Jessica Biel. Timberlake is wearing Tom Ford and Biel is wearing Kaufman Franco. Mike Blake/Reuters Buy Photo Wait 1 second to continue.

This post has been updated.

Read more:

‘I am alive and well': Oscar night’s overlooked foul-up

Oscars 2017: 10 things you need to know, from the epic mix-up to Viola Davis’s speech

Reactions to Oscars flub: Disbelief, Steve Harvey jokes and election-night metaphors

‘There’s been a mistake. “Moonlight,” you guys won.’: An Oscars shocker, in more ways than one

Oscars 2017: ‘Moonlight’s’ moment not eclipsed by Oscars mix-up

Oscars 2017 review: From Blah-Blah Land to wait — what just happened?

The most eye-catching red-carpet look at the Oscars wasn’t a dress. It was a blue ACLU ribbon.

Red carpet: What celebrities wore to the Oscars

Jimmy Kimmel’s most biting monologue jokes

The Oscars’ most political moments