CLOSE Skip in Skip x Embed x Share Ashlyn is a high school senior who loves country music. She wrote a song about living with her disability and she got a little help from two of her favorite singers to bring it life.

Ashlyn Kossan poses with Kendra and Krista Slaubaugh of Tigirlily. (Photo: Tigirlily)

MINOT, N.D. — High school isn’t always the easiest time in someone’s life.

Imagine the everyday struggles of growing up and fitting in, all while living with cerebral palsy. That’s life for high school senior, Ashlyn Kossan.

Some days, says Kossan, she simply doesn’t want to get out of bed. But she pushes forward, trying her best to stay positive.

Music and song-writing is a core part of Kossan’s life. She loves country music and her idol is Taylor Swift. She also gets inspiration from local country-singing sister act, Tigirlily.

Kendra and Krista Slaubaugh make up the singing, guitar-playing duo who frequently tour around the Midwest. A few months ago, they met Kossan at one of their concerts; they’ve kept in contact ever since.

Kossan recently wrote a song titled, With Me and immediately called the sisters to help her put it to music.

“We were absolutely blown away by her lyrics, bringing tears to both of our eyes,” says Kendra Slaubaugh of Tigirlily.

Tigirlily didn’t stop at just writing the music for Kossan’s song, they also performed at her high school during the school’s talent show.

“She sang her heart out and was so fearless up on stage,” Kendra says. “It was such a special moment. Everyone was on their feet for Ashlyn by the end of the song.”

Tigirlily’s act of kindness not only helped Kossan express herself through music, but it allowed her to feel the support of her peers, through all the twists and turns of life.

Listen to their full performance and read Ashlyn’s lyrics HERE.

***

For more stories like this, LIKE Humankind on Facebook.

CLOSE Skip in Skip x Embed x Share HUMANKIND: TRIUMPHS This 13-year-old is probably taller than you and better at basketball | 0:42 Emoni is ranked as one of the top 7th grade players in the country. HUMANKIND 1 of 17 CLOSE Skip in Skip x Embed x Share HUMANKIND: TRIUMPHS 90-year-old man receives his high school diploma | 0:43 Lou Schipper left high school before graduation to enlist in World War II. Seventy years later, he returned to get his diploma. HUMANKIND 2 of 17 CLOSE Skip in Skip x Embed x Share HUMANKIND: TRIUMPHS Girls with disabilities are dancing like ballerinas for the first time | 0:51 Girls with developmental and physical disabilities are getting the chance to dance next to professional ballerinas as part of a program to build their mobility and confidence. Humankind 3 of 17 CLOSE Skip in Skip x Embed x Share HUMANKIND: TRIUMPHS Girl takes on supermarket for boys-only cakes | 0:46 An athletic third-grader noticed that sports cakes at her local grocery store were only for boys HUMANKIND 4 of 17 CLOSE Skip in Skip x Embed x Share HUMANKIND: TRIUMPHS Adorable little girl sings and dances through her sickness | 0:59 A rare blood disorder, two bone marrow transplants, and multiple complications can't stop little Leah from dancing and singing. Humankind 5 of 17 CLOSE Skip in Skip x Embed x Share HUMANKIND: TRIUMPHS Rape survivor finds peace with the help of wolves | 0:43 Sarah learned how to manage her PTSD with the help of wolves. Humankind 6 of 17 CLOSE Skip in Skip x Embed x Share HUMANKIND: TRIUMPHS Despite being paralyzed, Amber continues her adventures | 1:08 Amber has always loved the water. A water skiing accident left her paralyzed but that didn't stop her from enjoying the water. She simply found another way. HUMANKIND 7 of 17 CLOSE Skip in Skip x Embed x Share HUMANKIND: TRIUMPHS Couple overcomes 6 miscarriages and cancer to fulfill dream of having kids | 1:14 Chad and Stacey persevered through 8 years of heartache. Humankind 8 of 17 CLOSE Skip in Skip x Embed x Share HUMANKIND: TRIUMPHS Little boy celebrates end of chemo with awesome dance | 0:41 Six-year-old Jimmy Spagnolo is celebrating the end of a long year of chemotherapy. He was diagnosed with an inoperable brain tumor at four-months-old. Today marks his final day of chemo. And he's celebrating brilliantly. Humankind 9 of 17 CLOSE Skip in Skip x Embed x Share HUMANKIND: TRIUMPHS Four times the love: Family brings home quadruplets | 0:49 The Furey family is adding four more to their brood, as they bring home quadruplets. Mom and dad now have five children under 18 months old! Humankind 10 of 17 CLOSE Skip in Skip x Embed x Share HUMANKIND: TRIUMPHS This one-armed basketball player is dunking on the competition | 0:48 Eighth-grader Trashaun Willis was born with one arm but continues to be a threat on the court. Humankind 11 of 17 CLOSE Skip in Skip x Embed x Share HUMANKIND: TRIUMPHS Rescued pig on her way to a better life | 0:39 Piggy Wiggy was found with burns, flea allergies, and animal bites. Now, she gets to live her live in a mini pig rescue sanctuary. Wochit 12 of 17 CLOSE Skip in Skip x Embed x Share HUMANKIND: TRIUMPHS Swimmer with MS swims one million yards | 0:38 Betsy Lavin swam an average of 85,000 yards each month to reach her goal. Humankind 13 of 17 CLOSE Skip in Skip x Embed x Share HUMANKIND: TRIUMPHS Teen accepted to four military academies at once | 0:32 GRAND SLAM! This teen was accepted into four military academies - West Point, Naval Academy, Air Force Academy and Coast Guard Academy. Tegna Digital 14 of 17 CLOSE Skip in Skip x Embed x Share HUMANKIND: TRIUMPHS After cancer battle, boy gets to tour his favorite place: Amazon | 0:50 When he was too sick to go outside, Amazon delivered magic to Ben's door. Now that he's well again, he got the surprise of a lifetime! Humankind 15 of 17 CLOSE Skip in Skip x Embed x Share HUMANKIND: TRIUMPHS This ballerino proves you can be a great dancer at any size | 0:53 Erik shows us his passion for dance. UPWORTHY 16 of 17 CLOSE Skip in Skip x Embed x Share HUMANKIND: TRIUMPHS Doctor gives girl with facial deformity a new smile | 0:58 Li Ying was born in a small Chinese village with a severe craniofacial cleft. Dr. Craig Hobar brought Li Ying and her mother to Dallas for the first of a series of life-changing surgeries. HUMANKIND 17 of 17 Last VideoNext Video This 13-year-old is probably taller than you and better at basketball

90-year-old man receives his high school diploma

Girls with disabilities are dancing like ballerinas for the first time

Girl takes on supermarket for boys-only cakes

Adorable little girl sings and dances through her sickness

Rape survivor finds peace with the help of wolves

Despite being paralyzed, Amber continues her adventures

Couple overcomes 6 miscarriages and cancer to fulfill dream of having kids

Little boy celebrates end of chemo with awesome dance

Four times the love: Family brings home quadruplets

This one-armed basketball player is dunking on the competition

Rescued pig on her way to a better life

Swimmer with MS swims one million yards

Teen accepted to four military academies at once

After cancer battle, boy gets to tour his favorite place: Amazon

This ballerino proves you can be a great dancer at any size

Doctor gives girl with facial deformity a new smile

Read or Share this story: http://usat.ly/2m3mHWA