CLOSE Skip in Skip x Embed x Share 10-year-old Ayden was diagnosed with a rare childhood cancer in August. Doctors told his dad he had eight to 12 months to live. Kate Penn

Bill Kohler comforts his son, Ayden Ziegler-Kohler, 10, as he sits on their patio with his dog, Zuko. Ayden, who has a rare childhood cancer and limited mobility, was upset after seeing other kids out playing on the playground. (Photo: Kate Penn, York Daily Record)

SPRINGETTSBURY TOWNSHIP, P.A. -- Bill Kohler placed the crossbow in front of his 10-year-old son.

"All right, heartbreaker, are you ready?" Kohler asked him. "Aim small, miss small."

The blond boy lined up his shot, his arm wobbling slightly as he steadied it against his chair.

He took one breath. Then he squeezed the trigger.

Thwack.

The arrow pierced the lungs of the paper hog on a target at the end of the range at Xtreme Archery.

A small smile spread across the boy's face — just for a moment — and then it was gone.

They packed up the bow. Kohler steadied the boy and they walked the few steps to his son's wheelchair.

Bill Kohler watches over his son's shoulder as he shoots a target at Xtreme Archery in Springettsbury Township. Ayden was practicing for an upcoming hog and ram hunt. Though cancer has limited his mobility, a special chair with an extended arm helps stabilize the bow so Ayden can still shoot. (Photo: Kate Penn, York Daily Record)

At 9 years old, Ayden Zeigler-Kohler was constantly moving. Football, basketball, wrestling — there wasn't a sport he didn't love to play. Then in August of last year, without warning, everything changed.

He was in the middle of football practice when he collapsed. At the hospital, his dad was told it was a concussion. But Ayden quickly deteriorated, losing motor and verbal skills. Eventually, doctors found the tumors.

Ayden has two of them: one in his cerebellum, the other in his brain stem. It's called diffuse intrinsic pontine glioma, or DIPG.

It's not a forgiving cancer.

Doctors told Kohler his son had eight to 12 months to live. That was about seven months ago.

Ayden Zeigler-Kohler, 10, holds his cousin, Zhuri Bridger, 1, with his grandmother Jackie Kohler at his Springettsbury Township home. (Photo: Kate Penn, York Daily Record)

Kohler, an Army veteran, was broken when he came back from serving in Iraq. He was drinking a half a gallon of Captain Morgan every day just to sleep. Then Ayden was born.

"My whole world changed," Kohler said. "He saved my life."

The two are inseparable.

When Ayden was diagnosed, Kohler would lay his hands on his son's head, willing the cancer to leave his little boy and enter him instead — wanting to save his son's life as Ayden had done for him.

He threw himself into finding a way to make Ayden better. Between doctor's appointments, speech therapy and radiation treatments, he spent hours at their Springettsbury Township home applying for every clinical trial he could find.

RELATED: York Suburban makes Ayden's wish come true

Again and again, he was denied. There was nothing they could do, the rejection letters said.

"I was a medic in the war, you know, and you fix things," Kohler said. "And this was something I couldn't even touch."

He'll never give up hope, never stop fighting for his son, he said.

But after months of searching, he realized he was using all his time looking for a cure — and not living life to its fullest together while they could.

Ayden Zeigler-Kohler plays air hockey at home toward the end of February. Though his balance and motor skills were deteriorated from two cancerous tumors, Ayden was able to keep himself upright by using the wall behind him to balance. (Photo: Kate Penn, York Daily Record)

"We're trying to cram a lifetime into a few months is what we're trying to do," Kohler said.

The community has rallied around Ayden. He's been a special guest at football and basketball games and went on a fishing trip in Florida. This winter he shot his first buck.

"It was a perfect shot," Kohler said. "That was a proud dad moment right there."

Hunting and being out in the woods are where Kohler and his son find moments of peace. It's those moments they're trying to hold on to.

West York rallies for boy with brain tumor

Ayden lives with his dad and his dad's wife, Cathy. But they've opened their home to Ayden's mother, Jennifer Zeigler, as well. They want him to spend as much time as possible with the people who love him.

As his health declines, it's harder to do the things Ayden loves. But they try.

A chair with an extendable arm supports the crossbow and helps to stabilize Ayden's arm. He'll use it on a hog and ram hunt at the end of February with his father in Marietta.

A wish journal allows Ayden to communicate some of his desires for his life to his father. When asked if he's very sick and may die, where he'd like to be, he answered in the woods. (Photo: Kate Penn, York Daily Record))

Recently, Ayden's social worker helped him create a wish book — a way to open dialogue about what Ayden wants for his life. It's helped Kohler to make sure he's doing whatever he can to give some choice to his son, who's had so many choices taken away from him.

They're going to see WWE in Hershey, and they've got tickets for a Wizards game in March. But it's hard to plan that far in advance.

A question in the book prompts: "If I am very sick and may die I wish to be:"

Ayden finished the sentence: "in the woods."

As they pulled into their driveway after archery practice, Ayden could see kids playing at the school playground. He started to cry.

He missed running and playing and just being a normal kid, he told his dad.

Later, in his bedroom, Kohler tried to comfort his son.

"What if I don't get better, and die?" Ayden asked through tears.

"No matter how this turns out, son, I will be by your side," Kohler said. "The whole way."

A GoFundMe account to help support Ayden and his family can be found by searching Ayden Zeigler-Kohler fund on GoFundMe.com.

CLOSE Skip in Skip x Embed x Share HUMANKIND: SPECIAL RELATIONSHIPS Husband serenades wife of 61 years as she recovers from stroke | 0:27 Troy serenades his wife, Corky, as she lays in bed. A stroke four months earlier left Corky bedridden and in a nursing home. Humankind 1 of 17 CLOSE Skip in Skip x Embed x Share HUMANKIND: SPECIAL RELATIONSHIPS Police officer gets into snowball fight with neighborhood kids | 0:41 Police don't take snow days but sometimes they can make time for fun in the snow. Wochit 2 of 17 CLOSE Skip in Skip x Embed x Share HUMANKIND: SPECIAL RELATIONSHIPS Baby moonwalks to Michael Jackson's 'Beat It' | 1:04 What happens when you combine an exhausted stay-at-home dad, a four-month-old baby and some smooth dance moves? Moonwalking magic. HUMANKIND 3 of 17 CLOSE Skip in Skip x Embed x Share HUMANKIND: SPECIAL RELATIONSHIPS These dads have no shame in their ballet game | 0:34 This ballet studio held a very special "Daddy Daughter Ballet Class". Wochit 4 of 17 CLOSE Skip in Skip x Embed x Share HUMANKIND: SPECIAL RELATIONSHIPS Drone captures special moment in the park | 0:41 A super-romantic moment was caught on a flying camera. HUMANKIND 5 of 17 CLOSE Skip in Skip x Embed x Share HUMANKIND: SPECIAL RELATIONSHIPS When these goats needed extra care, she quit her job to save them | 0:58 Now people know Leanne Lauricella from her Goats of Anarchy Instagram account. HUMANKIND 6 of 17 CLOSE Skip in Skip x Embed x Share HUMANKIND: SPECIAL RELATIONSHIPS A 70-year-old love story celebrated with a 166-year-old wedding dress | 0:48 When Priscilla married Bill in 1948, she wore a 97-year-old wedding dress. Humankind 7 of 17 CLOSE Skip in Skip x Embed x Share HUMANKIND: SPECIAL RELATIONSHIPS Babies chat on a video call | 0:54 When you and your bestie get on a video call for a catch-up session. HUMANKIND 8 of 17 CLOSE Skip in Skip x Embed x Share HUMANKIND: SPECIAL RELATIONSHIPS Rape survivor finds peace with the help of wolves | 0:43 Sarah learned how to manage her PTSD with the help of wolves. Humankind 9 of 17 CLOSE Skip in Skip x Embed x Share HUMANKIND: SPECIAL RELATIONSHIPS Dad adopts four kids, gives them childhood he never had | 5:32 Rob Scheer wants to make sure no other child in the foster care system has an experience like the ones he and his children had. Warning: descriptions of abuse. Humankind 10 of 17 CLOSE Skip in Skip x Embed x Share HUMANKIND: SPECIAL RELATIONSHIPS How many grandmas does it take to take a selfie? | 0:30 These two grandmothers just can't figure out how to take a selfie. Humankind 11 of 17 CLOSE Skip in Skip x Embed x Share HUMANKIND: SPECIAL RELATIONSHIPS Pet hedgehog is pampered with a bath | 0:26 How do you bathe your pet hedgehog? With a toothbrush, of course. HUMANKIND 12 of 17 CLOSE Skip in Skip x Embed x Share HUMANKIND: SPECIAL RELATIONSHIPS These pigs have some serious swagger | 0:19 These pigs from China have it going on! They sure now how to walk the walk! Humankind 13 of 17 CLOSE Skip in Skip x Embed x Share HUMANKIND: SPECIAL RELATIONSHIPS Tractor driver pulls toy truck full of baby pugs | 0:25 A tiny toy truck of puppies is being pulled by a tractor as the little dogs enjoy the ride. Wochit 14 of 17 CLOSE Skip in Skip x Embed x Share HUMANKIND: SPECIAL RELATIONSHIPS The heart-melting moment a toddler meets his little brother | 0:59 This is the heart-warming moment a big brother meets his new-born baby sibling for the first time and can’t stop hugging and showering him with kisses. Wochit 15 of 17 CLOSE Skip in Skip x Embed x Share HUMANKIND: SPECIAL RELATIONSHIPS Doctor gives girl with facial deformity a new smile | 0:58 Li Ying was born in a small Chinese village with a severe craniofacial cleft. Dr. Craig Hobar brought Li Ying and her mother to Dallas for the first of a series of life-changing surgeries. HUMANKIND 16 of 17 CLOSE Skip in Skip x Embed x Share HUMANKIND: SPECIAL RELATIONSHIPS This teacher has different handshakes with each student | 1:59 This Charlotte, North Carolina teacher has a unique handshake with each of his students. Watch them go! NBC Charlotte 17 of 17 Last VideoNext Video Husband serenades wife of 61 years as she recovers from stroke

Police officer gets into snowball fight with neighborhood kids

Baby moonwalks to Michael Jackson's 'Beat It'

These dads have no shame in their ballet game

Drone captures special moment in the park

When these goats needed extra care, she quit her job to save them

A 70-year-old love story celebrated with a 166-year-old wedding dress

Babies chat on a video call

Rape survivor finds peace with the help of wolves

Dad adopts four kids, gives them childhood he never had

How many grandmas does it take to take a selfie?

Pet hedgehog is pampered with a bath

These pigs have some serious swagger

Tractor driver pulls toy truck full of baby pugs

The heart-melting moment a toddler meets his little brother

Doctor gives girl with facial deformity a new smile

This teacher has different handshakes with each student

Read or Share this story: http://usat.ly/2mABUfU