Watching is The New York Times’s TV and film recommendation website.

The bulk of this year’s Academy Awards contenders (see the full list here) was released late in 2016, and as is often the case, so many of the most-nominated films are still in theaters. But several nominated live-action, documentary and animated features (as well as many short films) are available to stream right now.

‘Moonlight’

Nominated for: best picture, best supporting actress (Naomie Harris), best supporting actor (Mahershala Ali), best cinematography, best director, best editing, best original score, best adapted screenplay. (Add it to your Watchlist.)

A shy boy in a poor Miami neighborhood struggles with a drug-addicted mother and his own sexuality in this story told in three parts, at three different ages of his life.

Where to watch: Rent it on iTunes, Amazon or Vudu.

Jeff Bridges, left, and Gil Birmingham in “Hell or High Water.” Lorey Sebastian/CBS Films

‘Hell or High Water’

Nominated for: best picture, best original screenplay, best editing, best supporting actor (Jeff Bridges)

By telling the tale of two brothers (Chris Pine and Ben Foster) robbing banks to save the family ranch and of the wily Texas Ranger (Jeff Bridges) determined to stop them, this crackerjack heist thriller also tells a second story about the ravages of recession-era America. In the foreground, the film delivers the genre goods, with tense robbery sequences and crisp regional dialogue; in the background, director David Mackenzie exposes a West Texas locale that the economy left behind. (Add it to your Watchlist.)

Where to watch: Rent it on iTunes, Amazon, Google Play, Vudu or FandangoNOW.

Viggo Mortensen in “Captain Fantastic.” Bleecker Street

‘Captain Fantastic’

Nominated for: best actor (Viggo Mortensen)

Imagine “The Mosquito Coast” or “Running on Empty” with a “Little Miss Sunshine” slickness and you’re close to writer-director Matt Ross’s road movie about a family hijacked by their father’s rejection of modern society. This father (Viggo Mortensen) isn’t a tyrant like the one in “The Mosquito Coast” (Harrison Ford), however, which gives the decisions he makes for his six children the weight of genuine parental compassion and concern. (Add it to your Watchlist.)

Where to watch: Rent it on Amazon, iTunes, Google Play, YouTube or Vudu.

‘O.J.: Made in America’

Nominated for: best documentary feature

Across five parts and seven and a half hours, this documentary by Ezra Edelman frames the O.J. Simpson story within the broader context of the history of race in America, an examination so thorough that the murders of Nicole Brown Simpson and Ron Goldman don’t happen until Part 3T. But it’s an endlessly fascinating case study, full of revelations for even those who watched the trial obsessively and never missed an episode of “American Crime Story: The People v. O.J. Simpson.” (Add it to your Watchlist.)

Where to watch: Stream it on Hulu or purchase at iTunes or Amazon.

[Sign up to the Watching newsletter to get recommendations straight to your inbox.]

‘13TH’

Nominated for: best documentary feature

Seeking to understand and explain the problem of mass incarceration in America, director Ava DuVernay (“Selma”) goes all the way back to the passing of the 13th Amendment, which outlawed slavery except as punishment for a crime. DuVernay and a battery of talking heads make a powerful argument that the exception baked into the amendment has allowed for a systemic form of black oppression. (Add it to your Watchlist.)

Where to watch: Stream it on Netflix.

Colin Farrell and Rachel Weisz in “The Lobster.” A24

‘The Lobster’

Nominated for: best original screenplay

Yorgos Lanthimos’s surreal black comedy takes place in a future where single people are lodged in a hotel and required to find a mate within 45 days — or else be turned into the animal of their choice. That description only suggests the bizarre dimensions of this chilly dystopia, which Lanthimos realizes with the deadpan wit of his 2010 breakthrough, “Dogtooth,” and with a surprising depth of feeling, courtesy of soulful performances by Colin Farrell and Rachel Weisz. (Add it to your Watchlist.)

Where to watch: Stream it on Amazon Prime; rent it on iTunes or Vudu.

Ruth Negga and Joel Edgerton in “Loving.” Focus Features

‘Loving’

Nominated for: best actress (Ruth Negga)

Director Jeff Nichols’s touching historical drama about Richard and Mildred Loving — the plaintiffs in Loving v. Virginia, the 1967 Supreme Court case that invalidated state laws against interracial marriage — honors the simple, dogged beauty of a rural couple that wants only to live in peace. Joel Edgerton and Ruth Negga plays the Lovings as modest, hard-working Americans who squint in the national spotlight, but will do whatever’s necessary to defend their marriage and protect a shared dream. (Add it to your Watchlist.)

Where to watch: Rent it on Amazon, iTunes or Vudu.

‘Florence Foster Jenkins’

Nominated for: best actress (Meryl Streep), best costume design

In the 1940s, the wealthy socialite Florence Foster Jenkins (Meryl Streep) tries to realize her dreams as a singer while the sycophants in the arts community, to whom she’s been exceedingly generous, prove more than willing to indulge her less-than-mellifluous voice. Florence screeching her way through training sessions is a comic delight — as much for Simon Helberg’s chagrined pianist as for Streep’s charming obliviousness — but the film is also a touching affirmation of artistic expression. (Add it to your Watchlist.)

Where to watch: Rent it on iTunes, Amazon or Vudu.

Amy Adams in “Arrival.” Jan Thijs/Paramount Pictures

‘Arrival’

Nominated for: best picture, best cinematography, best director, best editing, best production design, best sound editing, best sound mixing, best adapted screenplay

Science fiction for the heart and the head, this “Close Encounters”-like scenario concerns humanity’s attempt to communicate with alien visitors of unknown and potentially devastating intent. As a linguist (Amy Adams) works to unpack the language of “heptapods,” “Arrival” leads viewers through brainy conceits while also connecting to core emotions of grief and loss. (Add it to your Watchlist.)

Where to watch: Rent it on iTunes, Amazon or Vudu.

Judy Hopps (voiced by Ginnifer Goodwin) in “Zootopia.” Walt Disney Pictures

‘Zootopia’

Nominated for: best animated feature

In an anthropomorphic metropolis where predators and prey live together harmoniously, the city’s first bunny cop teams up with a wily fox to uncover a political conspiracy. That kiddie-“Chinatown” plot hints at the ambition and complexity of this Disney animated film, which plays like a typically bright adventure for young children, but smuggles in deeper insights on gender roles and race relations for grown-ups. (Add it to your Watchlist.)

Where to watch: Stream it on Netflix; rent it on iTunes, Amazon or Vudu.

Kubo (voiced by Art Parkinson) in “Kubo and the Two Strings.” Laika Studios — Focus Features

‘Kubo and the Two Strings’

Nominated for: best animated feature, best visual effects

Perhaps the strongest effort yet from Laika, the stop-motion animation house behind “Coraline” and “The Boxtrolls,” this gorgeous play on Japanese myth sends a boy and his magical samisen on a quest to find his father’s suit of armor and beat back a threat from the spiritual realm. As usual with Laika productions, “Kubo” isn’t afraid to lead children through darkness and abstraction, but the reward is a textured and constantly evolving world that unfolds like origami. (Add it to your Watchlist.)

Where to watch: Rent it on iTunes, Amazon, or Vudu.

‘Life, Animated’

Nominated for: best documentary feature

After developing autism at the age of three, Owen Suskind receded into silence and loneliness until his parents discovered that Disney animated films could serve as a bridge between their world and his. Adapted from the book by Ron Suskind, Roger Ross Williams’s tear-jerker of a documentary adds its own animation to illustrate the bond between Owen and his parents, and to assert the transformative power of movies to make a difference in people’s lives. (Add it to your Watchlist.)

Where to watch: Stream it on Amazon Prime; rent it on Vudu.

‘A Man Called Ove’

Nominated for: best foreign language film, best makeup and hairstyling

In this disarming Swedish comedy, a recent widower (Rolf Lassgard) terrorizes the neighborhood with his misanthropic behavior, but his cantankerousness eases when a family moves in across the street and gradually wears down his defenses. There’s nothing particularly surprising about the feel-good premise — even the man’s suicidal tendencies are treated lightly — but the widower’s achievement of late-life grace is persuasive and moving, and the film’s sense of community gives it unexpected depth. (Add it to your Watchlist.)

Where to watch: Rent it on iTunes, Amazon or Vudu.

Bagheera (voiced by Ben Kingsley) and Neel Sethi as the man-cub Mowgli in “The Jungle Book.” Walt Disney Studios Motion Pictures

Other Nominated Films

“Fences” (best picture, best actor, best supporting actress, best adapted screenplay): Available to purchase on iTunes, Amazon or Vudu.

“Fire at Sea” (best documentary feature): Rent it on iTunes

“Sully” (best sound editing): Rent it on iTunes, Amazon or Vudu.

“Nocturnal Animals” (best supporting actor): Rent it on iTunes, Amazon or Vudu.

“Manchester by the Sea” (best picture, best actor, best supporting actress, best supporting actor, best director, best original screenplay): Rent it on iTunes, Amazon or Vudu.

“Hacksaw Ridge” (best picture, best director, best actor, best editing, best sound editing, best sound mixing): Rent it on iTunes, Amazon or Vudu.

“Tanna” (best foreign language film): Rent it on iTunes or Amazon.

“13 Hours: The Secret Soldiers of Benghazi” (best sound mixing): Stream it on Amazon Prime, Hulu or Epix.

“Jim: The James Foley Story” (best original song): Stream it on HBO; Rent it on Amazon, Google Play or Vudu

“The Jungle Book” (best visual effects): Stream it on Netflix; rent it on iTunes, Amazon or Vudu.

“Hail, Caesar!” (best production design): Stream it on HBO; buy it on Amazon.

“Trolls” (best original song): Rent it on iTunes or Amazon

“Deepwater Horizon” (best visual effects, best sound editing): Rent it on Amazon, iTunes, Google Play or Vudu.

“Star Trek Beyond” (best makeup and hairstyling): Rent it on Amazon, Google Play, iTunes or Vudu.

Short Films

“4.1 Miles” (best documentary short subject): Stream it on NYTimes.com.

“The White Helmets” (best documentary short subject): Stream it on Netflix.

“Extremis” (best documentary short subject): Stream it on Netflix.

“Joe’s Violin” (best documentary short subject): Stream it at Vanityfair.com.

“Pear Cider and Cigarettes” (best animated short): Rent it on Vimeo.

“Pearl” (best animated short): Watch it on YouTube.

“Piper” (best animated short): Watch it on YouTube.

“La Femme et le TGV” (best live action short): Rent it on iTunes.